-----BEGIN PRIVACY-ENHANCED MESSAGE-----
Proc-Type: 2001,MIC-CLEAR
Originator-Name: webmaster@www.sec.gov
Originator-Key-Asymmetric:
 MFgwCgYEVQgBAQICAf8DSgAwRwJAW2sNKK9AVtBzYZmr6aGjlWyK3XmZv3dTINen
 TWSM7vrzLADbmYQaionwg5sDW3P6oaM5D3tdezXMm7z1T+B+twIDAQAB
MIC-Info: RSA-MD5,RSA,
 P768hFJSTyFI6nTvFLf2qMf/ny4R0HP/2hlThWgdzMv19CohJ9uwnCtSsfwK36NF
 UyKC4Q8OAiZCU6JqaxA4mg==

<SEC-DOCUMENT>0000718083-99-000007.txt : 19990517
<SEC-HEADER>0000718083-99-000007.hdr.sgml : 19990517
ACCESSION NUMBER:		0000718083-99-000007
CONFORMED SUBMISSION TYPE:	20-F
PUBLIC DOCUMENT COUNT:		24
CONFORMED PERIOD OF REPORT:	19981231
FILED AS OF DATE:		19990514

FILER:

	COMPANY DATA:	
		COMPANY CONFORMED NAME:			HUNTINGDON LIFE SCIENCES GROUP PLC
		CENTRAL INDEX KEY:			0000718083
		STANDARD INDUSTRIAL CLASSIFICATION:	SERVICES-ENGINEERING SERVICES [8711]
		IRS NUMBER:				000000000
		FISCAL YEAR END:			1231

	FILING VALUES:
		FORM TYPE:		20-F
		SEC ACT:		
		SEC FILE NUMBER:	001-10173
		FILM NUMBER:		99622144

	BUSINESS ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		WOOLLEY RD ALCONBURY
		STREET 2:		HUNTINGDON
		CITY:			CAMBRIDGESHIRE ENGLA
		STATE:			X0
		BUSINESS PHONE:		2123733000

	FORMER COMPANY:	
		FORMER CONFORMED NAME:	HUNTINGDON INTERNATIONAL HOLDINGS PLC
		DATE OF NAME CHANGE:	19950105
</SEC-HEADER>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>20-F
<SEQUENCE>1
<TEXT>



                                  UNITED STATES
                       SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
                             WASHINGTON, D.C. 205494
                            ------------------------
                                    FORM 20-F
              ( ) REGISTRATION STATEMENT PURSUANT TO SECTION 12(b)
                  OR (g) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
                                       OR
               (X) ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15 (d)
                     OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
                  For the fiscal year ended: December 31, 1998
                                       OR
            ( ) TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF
              THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 (NO FEE REQUIRED)
                         COMMISSION FILE NUMBER 1-10173
                            ------------------------
                       HUNTINGDON LIFE SCIENCES GROUP plc
             (EXACT NAME OF REGISTRANT AS SPECIFIED IN ITS CHARTER)
                                ENGLAND AND WALES
                 (JURISDICTION OF INCORPORATION OR ORGANIZATION)
     WOOLLEY ROAD, ALCONBURY, HUNTINGDON, PE17 5HS, CAMBRIDGESHIRE, ENGLAND
                    (ADDRESS OF PRINCIPAL EXECUTIVE OFFICES)
           SECURITIES REGISTERED PURSUANT TO SECTION 12(b) OF THE ACT:
                                      None
           SECURITIES REGISTERED PURSUANT TO SECTION 12(g) OF THE ACT:

                                                 NAME OF EACH EXCHANGE
TITLE OF EACH CLASS                              ON WHICH REGISTERED
- --------------------                              ----------------------------
Ordinary Shares, par value 5 pence per share,    New York Stock Exchange, Inc.
in the form of American Depositary Shares
represented by American Depositary Receipts

SECURITIES FOR WHICH THERE IS A REPORTING OBLIGATION PURSUANT TO SECTION 15(d)
OF THE ACT:
                                      None
Indicate the number of  outstanding  shares of each of the  issuer's  classes of
capital  or common  stock as of the close of the  period  covered  by the annual
report:

  Ordinary Shares of 5 pence each as at December 31, 1998       291,010,294

Indicate by check mark whether the Registrant (1) has filed all reports required
to be filed by Section 13 or Section  15(d) of the  Securities  Exchange  Act of
1934  during  the  preceding  12 months  (or for such  shorter  period  that the
registrant  was required to file such report),  and (2) has been subject to such
filing requirements for the past 90 days.

                   Yes X                     No __

Indicate by check mark which financial statement item the Registrant has elected
to follow.

                   Item 17                   Item 18X

- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------


- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------


<PAGE>




                           EXCHANGE RATE FLUCTUATIONS



The following  table sets forth,  for the periods and dates  indicated,  certain
information  concerning  the  exchange  rate for  translating  sterling  into US
dollars,  based on the noon buying rate in New York City for cable  transfers in
foreign  currencies,  as certified for customs  purposes by the Federal  Reserve
Bank of New York.

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>

         YEAR ENDED               AT SEPTEMBER 30         AVERAGE RATE(1)           HIGH(2)            LOW(2)
        SEPTEMBER 30
  -------------------------     --------------------     -------------------    ---------------     --------------
         <S>                          <C>                        <C>                 <C>                 <C>  
          1994                         1.58                       1.51                1.58                1.46
          1995                         1.58                       1.59                1.61                1.56
</TABLE>
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>

         YEAR ENDED                AT DECEMBER 31         AVERAGE RATE(1)          HIGH(2)             LOW(2)
        DECEMBER 31
  -------------------------     --------------------     -------------------    ---------------     --------------
         <S>                          <C>                        <C>                 <C>                 <C> 

          1996                         1.71                       1.57                1.66                1.52
          1997                         1.64                       1.64                1.69                1.60
          1998                         1.66                       1.66                1.70                1.64
</TABLE>

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>

     THREE MONTHS ENDED           AT DECEMBER 31          AVERAGE RATE(1)          HIGH(2)             LOW(2)
        DECEMBER 31
  -------------------------     --------------------     -------------------    ---------------     --------------
         <S>                          <C>                        <C>                 <C>                 <C> 

          1995                         1.55                       1.55                1.58                1.54
</TABLE>

(1)   Based on the average of the exchange rates on the last day of each month
      during the period.

(2)   Based on the monthly average of the daily average rate.

            ----------------------------------------------------------

On April 16, 1999 the noon buying rate for sterling  was $1.6138 =(pound)1.00

             ----------------------------------------------------------

The  operations of Huntingdon  Life Sciences  Group plc (the  "Company") and its
consolidated  subsidiaries  (collectively  with the Company,  "Huntingdon")  are
located in the United  Kingdom (the "UK"),  and the United  States (the "USA" or
the "US"). Substantially all of the revenues generated by the Company's UK-based
subsidiary is invoiced in sterling, and most sources of materials,  supplies and
services  utilized in generating such revenues are located within the UK. All of
the revenues generated by the Company's US subsidiary are invoiced in US dollars
and most sources of materials, supplies and services utilized in generating such
revenues  are  located  within the US. With the  exception  of  Huntingdon  Life
Sciences  Limited,  whose US  contracts  are  denominated  in US  dollars,  each
subsidiary's  earnings are not materially  affected by movements in the exchange
rates  between  sterling  and/or  the US  dollar  and/or a third  currency,  but
Huntingdon's  results on consolidation are affected by movements in the exchange
rate between sterling,  and the US dollar.  Fluctuations in sterling relative to
the US dollar  would also  affect  any US dollar  translations  of  Huntingdon's
financial results.  In addition,  payment of dividends on the Company's ordinary
shares, par value 5 pence per ordinary share (the "Ordinary Shares"),  traded in
the  form  of  American  Depositary   Receipts  ("ADRs"),   evidencing  American
Depositary Shares ("ADSs"),  each ADS representing five Ordinary Shares, will be
in sterling and exchange  rate  fluctuations  will affect the US dollar  amounts
received  by  holders  of the ADRs on  conversion  by The Bank of New York,  the
depositary for the Ordinary Shares  represented by ADSs (the  "Depositary"),  of
the cash dividends paid on the Ordinary Shares underlying the ADRs.



                               TABLE OF CONTENTS

ITEM                                                                     PAGE

         PART I

 1.      Description of Business ........................................   1

 2.      Description of Properties ......................................  12

 3.      Legal Proceedings ..............................................  12

 4.      Control of Registrant ..........................................  12

 5.      Nature of Trading Market .......................................  13

 6.      Exchange Controls and Other Limitations Affecting 
         Security Holders ...............................................  14

 7.      Taxation........................................................  14

 8.      Selected Financial Data ........................................  15

 9       Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial 

         Condition and Results of Operations ..............................16

10.      Directors and Officers of the Registrant......................... 22

11.      Compensation of Directors and Officers .......................... 22

12.      Options to Purchase Securities from the Registrant  ............. 24

13.      Interest of Management in Certain Transactions .................. 26

                                     PART II

14.      Description of Securities to be Registered .....................  27



                                    PART III

15.      Defaults Upon Senior Securities ................................  27

16.      Changes in Securities and Changes in Security for
         Registered Securities ..........................................  27



                                     PART IV

17.      Financial Statements .........................................    27

18.      Financial Statements (See Item 19 for a List of Financial

           Statements Filed Under Item 18) ..............................  27

19.      Financial Statements and Exhibits ..............................  28



<PAGE>



ITEM 1. DESCRIPTION OF  BUSINESS

INTRODUCTION

Huntingdon is one of the world's leading Contact Research  Organisations (CRO's)
specialising  in the areas of non-clinical  safety and efficacy  testing for the
pharmaceutical,  biotechnology,  agrochemical,  veterinary,  food  and  chemical
industries.  Over half of its sales are in support of early stage development of
promising new pharmaceutical and biotech compounds.  The remainder is associated
with safety testing for chemical  compounds used in the manufacture of products,
foodstuffs,  and  agricultural  products.  The  company  is based in the  United
Kingdom,  with  facilities in  Huntingdon  (Cambridgeshire)  and Eye  (Suffolk),
England, and the Princeton Research Centre in New Jersey (USA).  Huntingdon is a
world-wide provider of pre-clinical toxicology, pharmacology, pharmaco-kinetics,
molecular biology, analytical chemistry, environmental and regulatory services.

GENERAL DEVELOPMENT OF THE BUSINESS

The Company was incorporated in England in 1951 as a private limited company and
was a  wholly-owned  subsidiary  of Becton,  Dickinson  and Company from 1964 to
1983. In April 1983, the Company was  re-registered  as a public limited company
with the name "Huntingdon Research Centre plc". In June 1985, the Company's name
was changed from  Huntingdon  Research  Centre plc to  Huntingdon  International
Holdings plc and  subsequently  in April 1997 to Huntingdon  Life Sciences Group
plc. In June 1985 the Company  transferred the assets which constituted its life
sciences business to its subsidiary  Huntingdon Research Centre Ltd. In 1991 the
Company began operating a subsidiary,  Leicester  Clinical  Research Centre Ltd.
("LCRC") which provided a wide range of biological and psychological  assessment
procedures  involving  healthy human  volunteers.  This  subsidiary  was sold in
November 1995 to Applied Bioscience International Inc ("APBI") (see below).

From 1985 until their sale in May 1995, the Company, through HIH USA Inc and its
subsidiary,  Huntingdon  Engineering  and  Environmental  Services Inc.  ("HEE")
provided  construction-related  engineering  services,  environmental  services,
consultancy and testing in the USA.  Outside the USA,  following the acquisition
of Travers  Morgan  Limited and its  subsidiaries  ("TM") in December  1991, the
Company began to provide  consultancy  and expert services in the areas of civil
and  structural  engineering,  consultation  on the planning and  development of
transportation systems, project management and environmental consultancy.

On December  15, 1994 the High Court of Justice,  Chancery  Division,  Companies
Court (the "Court") granted an  administrative  order (the "Order") under the UK
Insolvency Act 1986.  Under the Order,  joint  administrators  were appointed to
Travers  Morgan  Limited,  as a result of which control passed from the Company,
the  trading of TM was  isolated  from the  Company  and the Group wrote off its
investment,  providing  (pound)11.6  million against the amounts receivable from
Travers  Morgan Ltd.  Management  expects the  administration  will be concluded
during 1999 and following  discussions with the Joint  Administrators  the Group
determined that the provision was excessive and accordingly  released (pound)2.1
million  which was  recorded as an  exceptional  gain in the accounts for the 12
months ended December 31, 1997. 90% of the anticipated  dividend was received in
1998.

On November 21, 1995, the Company acquired the toxicology business of APBI which
comprised  laboratories  in the UK near  Newcastle and near Diss, and in the USA
near  Princeton.  The total  consideration  of  $43,000,000  ((pound)27,000,000)
comprised cash of $32,500,000 and approximately  (pound)3,800,000  in respect of
cash   acquired   with  the  business   and  an  agreed   value  of   $4,500,000
((pound)2,900,000)  in respect of LCRC (see above).  The small  laboratory  near
Newcastle in the UK was closed in July 1996 and  subsequently  sold in September
1996. Immediately upon acquisition the toxicology business of APBI in the UK was
merged with that of Huntingdon  Research Centre Ltd and the name of that company
changed to Huntingdon  Life Sciences Ltd. The US business  acquired  operates as
Huntingdon Life Sciences Inc.

In March 1997,  Huntingdon  through  Huntingdon  Life Sciences Ltd completed the
purchase of a small  specialist  research  centre located close to Manchester at
Wilmslow  in the UK.  This  comprises  38 acres of which  approximately  half is
developed  and on  which  there  is  92,000  sq.  feet of  laboratories,  animal
accommodation  and  offices.  Due to a decline in revenues the site has now been
closed and management intends to dispose of the site.



<PAGE>


Huntingdon  suffered  from  a  collapse  in  confidence  from  a  number  of its
previously  supportive clients following  allegations of malpractice at both its
UK and US operations in the Spring of 1997. The UK allegations  were received by
the  supervising  authorities  following a program in the  Channel 4  television
series  `Countryside  Undercover'.  Those in the U.S. were submitted to the USDA
and based on reports received by PeTA, an animal activist group.

In July 1997 the UK Home Office inspectors  confirmed to their satisfaction that
whilst  there was an incident  of  maltreatment,  it was  isolated.  However,  a
statement was made by the  Government  that caused many clients to conclude that
there were  separate  further  allegations.  The Home Office then  established a
number  of  conditions,  which  Huntingdon  had to  comply  with  by the  end of
November.  On  September  29, 1997 the Home  Office  stated that the company had
demonstrated  full  compliance  with the  conditions  and that they  were  fully
satisfied.

 In the US the USDA undertook two inspections  during the summer of 1997 and one
in  February  1998 , these  followed  their  annual  inspection  in April and an
intensive  FDA  inspection  in  February - both of which were  satisfactory.  In
December 1997  Huntingdon  announced the receipt of a settlement  agreement as a
Court  Order  in  which  PeTA  agreed  to  give up all of its  campaign  against
Huntingdon.  The  Association  for  Assessment and  Accreditation  of Laboratory
Animal Care (AAALAC)  inspected the site and unanimously  endorsed its continued
accreditation.  In April 1998 the USDA  investigation  was concluded and did not
include any  concessions of violations by Huntingdon.  In December 1998 the USDA
conducted it's annual routine  inspection of the laboratories and concluded that
they were in full compliance with all aspects of its Regulations.

As described in a Prospectus  dated August 10, 1998,  and effected  September 2,
1998 a New Investor Group saw an opportunity in Huntingdon  where new management
and a strengthened  balance sheet could reinstate a company with a distinguished
scientific reputation and a history of success and profitability.

As a result of the highly  visible public  allegations of malpractice  discussed
above, the Group had experienced a substantial  decline  (approximately  30%) in
revenues and a concurrent reversal of profits and cash flow in the proceeding 18
months.

The New  Investor  Group,  led by Andrew Baker of Focused  Healthcare  Partners,
believed  that  Huntingdon's  core  competency  was sound and the need for their
service clearly existed.  They were suffering from a lack of confidence that had
resulted from the allegations that occurred over a year previously.  The Company
had met all of the requirements vis a vis regulatory  authorities and inspection
agencies, but the thing that was missing was the spirit of management. Immediate
steps needed to be taken to  strengthen  the balance  sheet of the Company,  and
decisive  actions were required at senior  management and board level to restore
the confidence of customers.

To help effect those changes,  (pound)22million  (approximately  $37 million) of
new equity was raised for Huntingdon  Life Science Group.  There were changes in
senior  management  with the  addition of  respected  and  experienced  industry
leaders. New management, led by Andrew Baker (Executive Chairman) and Brian Cass
(Chief Operating Officer and Managing  Director)  established that the Company's
highest  priorities  were the return of good  relations with its clients and the
re-establishment  of the sales levels  enjoyed  previously.  Concurrently,  they
effected  a cost  reduction  program  in  order  to more  appropriately  realign
expenses  with  the  Company's  reduced  revenue  levels.  The  aim of  the  new
management is to develop the operational, commercial and cultural aspects of the
Company  to  ensure   improvements   in   efficiency,   customer   service   and
communications,  both externally and internally. The results will drive revenues
and create a sense of pride in staff.  The  employees are the `make or break' of
this business and therefore the essence of shareholder return.  Their individual
rejuvenation is critical to the Group's success.

Building from the Company's core strengths - scientific  expertise,  experience,
knowledge  and  reputation  - our  goals are  clear:  To be  appreciated  as the
listening,  understanding and reliable partner in creative compound  development
and safety assessment; to be the first choice for the industries we serve.

To provide  our staff  with the  opportunity  for  individual  development in a
caring, rewarding and safe working environment.

<PAGE>


To be recognised positively in the local communities in which we operate -------
and, consequently,  to grow to significant  profitability and improved return on
investment  for our  shareholders.  Our vision is to create a new  standard  and
level of partnership in our industry,  built upon our technical,  scientific and
regulatory  expertise,  the ethical  standards  we adopt,  our  problem  solving
approach and a dedication to customer service and teamwork.



DESCRIPTION OF THE BUSINESS


Huntingdon offers  non-clinical  safety and efficacy assessment services to most
of the  world's  leading  pharmaceutical,  biopharmaceutical,  agricultural  and
industrial chemical  manufacturers,  and is a trusted  developmental  partner to
some of the largest blue chip companies.  Huntingdon  helps it's customers bring
to market safe and effective  new  compounds - compounds  which are safe whether
exposed to humans, animals or the environment. All of the company's services are
designed to meet the  requirements  of  governments  around the world.  The most
demanding of these  evaluations are those driven by the regulations  controlling
the  pharmaceutical  and veterinary  industries.  The aim of all of Huntingdon's
services  is to provide its  customers  with data that will  satisfy  regulatory
authorities around the world.

o Pharmaceuticals: Huntingdon plays a crucial role in the development of new
  medicines. Promising compounds, which may become
  important  clinical  treatments of the future,  are  identified by discovery
  research  carried out by  pharmaceutical  and  biopharmaceutical  companies.
  Safety and efficacy  testing is then  required  before  clinical  trials can
  begin in humans.  Studies must be carried out to  determine  what happens to
  the  compound  inside  the body,  for  example,  how much of a  compound  is
  absorbed,  how much is retained in the tissues,  how it may react with other
  medicines and how well it will be clinically tolerated. Rightly, our society
  expects the highest  standards  of quality  and safety in the  medicines  we
  take. This demands a correspondingly high level of safety assessment,  as we
  assume that any substance reaching the market place will be essentially free
  from  harmful  effects.  All  chemical  substances  can be toxic if given at
  sufficiently  high levels - even within their normal dosage range  medicines
  have clinical side effects.  Cytotoxic agents used in cancer treatment are a
  good example of this  risk/benefit  analysis,  where the threat to life from
  the  disease far  outweighs  the drug's  toxic  potential.  The  decision to
  licence a new drug,  or other  substance,  must  weigh the  balance  between
  benefit and risk to health. A clear understanding of what those risks are is
  crucial.  Today the legislation  governing  pharmaceutical safety assessment
  insists  that  the  majority  of  this  essential  work is  conducted  using
  experimental  animals.  It  is  Huntingdon's  responsibility,  monitored  by
  government  authorities,  to ensure that these tests are performed to strict
  scientific protocols and when animal testing is required,  with acknowledged
  high standards of animal care and welfare.

  Non-animal models and computer  simulations can provide  supplementary  data
  and so reduce animal usage in some cases, but few are currently  accepted as
  viable alternatives to animal tests by regulatory authorities. Huntingdon is
  at the leading edge in the  development of these  alternative  techniques to
  animal testing. The company is committed to the scientific principles of the
  3 Rs - Reduction,  Refinement and  Replacement of animals in research.  This
  means we actively  support the search for validated  studies which  minimise
  the numbers of animals  used,  which make sure  animals  suffer as little as
  possible,  and which replace animal procedures wherever possible.  Currently
  in-vitro  laboratory and other  non-animal  testing work accounts for almost
  half of Huntingdon's  revenues. It is also the responsibility of the company
  and of the regulatory  authorities to ensure that all tests are performed to
  strict  scientific  criteria,  and when  animal  testing is  required,  with
  leading standards of animal care and welfare.

o Agricultural  Chemicals:  Huntingdon  has an  established  reputation as the
  world  market  leader in offering  full  development  programmes  that bring
  agricultural  chemicals to market.  These major contracts  involve assessing
  the safety,  environmental  impact and efficacy of the  compound.  A project
  management driven approach to programs of toxicology, environmental fate and
  affect,  and field trials,  often running over several years,  generate both
  good value to the client and a good return to Huntingdon's business.
  Agrochemicals are a real success story for Huntingdon Life Sciences.



<PAGE>


    Agricultural  chemicals are facing increasing  regulatory  demands driven by
    international guidelines,  currently one high profile area is neurotoxicity.
    Huntingdon is fortunate to have  experienced  scientists in this and related
    diciplines  and so is able to  offer a  resource  that is  second  to  none.
    Additionally,  regulatory  authorities  now often request data not only from
    controlled  laboratory  experiments,   but  also  from  systems  which  more
    accurately mimic the natural  environment.  An example is the mesocosm which
    is a new facility being developed at Huntingdon that will enable the company
    to offer additional  services in the assessment of environmental  impact. It
    is a system of 24 man made ponds containing water and sediment together with
    flora and fauna from established natural ponds. Mesocosms are used to assess
    the fate and effect of  chemicals  on natural  aquatic  systems and this new
    development enables Huntingdon to offer a total service in this complex area
    of environmental study.

o   Industrial Chemicals: Chemicals impact all of our lives in many ways,
    although we are frequently unaware of their presence in our environment.
    Huntingdon is the world market leader in these regulatory assessment
    programmes, both for new chemicals entering the market and also for the
    re-examination of the safety of existing chemicals.  Retrospective studies
    are a major growth area in the testing of industrial chemicals, where
    currently marketed chemicals are increasingly subjected to detailed
    reappraisal. The company is involved in testing a broad range of chemicals
    encountered in industry, the home and the environment, including paints,
    adhesives, dyes, photographic chemicals, solvents, detergents, flame
    retardants and many others.  Part of this work provides the necessary
    labelling information for many domestic and industrial products and assures
    consumers that products they are regularly exposed to are safe in normal
    conditions.  Regulatory authorities the world over demand stringent testing
    before chemicals can be transported, to assess safety levels and crisis
    response actions if the public or the environment are
    exposed.

o   Other areas: Huntingdon has been involved in the development and testing of
    a number of novel foodstuffs, artificial sweeteners and flavourings over
    the past decade.  Today we see the arrival of exciting new developments
    like "nutraceuticals", these are foods which provide a clear clinical
    benefit, such as the lowering of cholesterol levels. Huntingdon anticipates
    that demand for testing in this area will increase rapidly, once the
    regulatory authorities have established the appropriate legislative
    framework.  Similarly, public awareness of genetically modified foods is
    extremely high, as is the need to reassure consumers and the marketplace
    with appropriate regulatory controls. These new developments and associated
    regulations can be expected to drive further business opportunities for the
    company in this fast changing industry.Huntingdon plays an increasing
    role in the development of new veterinary medicines and other health
    products for both farm and companion animals.  Safety, tolerability and
    efficacy assessments are carried out in a similar way to tests on human
    medicines.  In food producing animals studies must be conducted to
    determine what happens to the compound inside the body but also assessments
    are made on residues in milk, dairy products, meat and eggs.  Specialised
    facilities are now in place, together with regulatory expertise, which will
    allow the company to increase it's share in this expanding market.


The legislation governing  pre-clinical research and safety testing insists that
the majority of this  essential  work  involves the use of animals.  This is the
case at  Huntingdon  Life  Sciences,  however  as noted  above  the  company  is
committed to the scientific  principles of the 3 Rs - Reduction,  Refinement and
Replacement of animals in research.  Huntingdon  does not undertake  research on
cosmetics and voluntarily  relinquished its licence to undertake  evaluations of
cosmetics  using  animals in the late 1980s and has pioneered  various  in-vitro
techniques  using  cell  cultures  as an  alternative  to  animal  testing.  The
replacement  of animal  studies by reliable in vitro  techniques  has been a key
objective at Huntingdon  for many years.  Huntingdon is at the heart of industry
moves towards alternative  techniques,  for example  participating in validation
trials  for the  European  Centre  for the  Validation  of  Alternative  Methods
(ECVAM),  being an active member of the In Vitro Toxicology Platform (IVTIP) and
supporting  the Fund for the  Replacement  of  Animals  in  Medical  Experiments
(FRAME).


<PAGE>


GEOGRAPHIC MARKETS

The figures below show the  percentage  of total orders of  Huntingdon  from the
geographical  areas which it services from  laboratories  in the UK and the USA.
The table shows the analysis  for the 12 months ended  December 31, 1997 and the
12 months ended December 31, 1998.

                                   % of Orders from each Geographic area

                                            1997                      1998
                                          ----------                ---------
Europe.................................       43                        38
Japan   ..............................        26                        20
United States.........................        24                        34
Rest of the World.....................         7                        8
                                          ----------                ---------
Total..................................     100%                      100%
                                          ----------                ---------


Orders were down 13% in Europe and 26% in Japan  whereas a 37%  improvement  was
seen in orders  from the US.  The  improvement  in the US  reflects  in part the
introduction  of new services and  facilities at the Princeton  site,  the lower
reliance upon Pharmaceutical clients and in addition the success of the Group in
the  targeting  of new  Biopharmaceutical  clients.  In Europe  and  Japan,  the
additional  comfort  required by  Pharmaceutical  clients slowed their return as
clients.  In Europe  this trend was  compounded  by mergers of clients and their
consideration of the role of outsourcing  whilst in Japan the trend was affected
by both  the  overall  economic  situation  and the  fact  that  allegations  of
malpractice  were directed more toward  studies  conducted on behalf of Japanese
clients.



CUSTOMERS  AND SERVICE MARKETS

Huntingdon  typically performs a number of contracts  simultaneously for each of
its major clients among whom are included most of the world's leading  companies
in  pharmaceuticals,  biotechnology,  agrochemicals  and  industrial  chemicals.
However,  the  companies  for which  work is  conducted  and the  volume of work
performed  for any one company  change from year to year and  Huntingdon  is not
dependent on any single client.

Pharmaceutical Business

Huntingdon's  primary market is pre-clinical  outsourcing for the pharmaceutical
industry and its place in the  development  cycle and details of developments in
this market are highlighted below.

- ----------------------- ------------------------------    -----------------
  DRUG DISCOVERY                  DEVELOPMENT                    MFG.
- ----------------------- -------------------------------   -----------------
                         PRE-CLINICAL        CLINICAL
                           
    Chemical Synthesis             Phase I  Phase II  Phase III  Phase IV Sales
                        Toxicology
        Screening       & Safety    Safety  Efficacy  LT Efficacy
                                                 -----------------------------
      & side effects                              NON-CLINICAL
                            --------------------------------------------------

o   Management believes that about R & D expenditure of pharmaceutical companies
    is  approximately  $40 billion.  Of this 25% is expenditure in  Huntingdon's
    core business area of pre-clinical research. Huntingdon believes that 10-15%
    of this is outsourced,  which means that the company is today competing in a
    $1-1.5 billion market. This market is growing as a result of R&D expenditure
    increasing by 10% annually,  outsourced R&D growing by 9%, a 50% increase in
    the number of projects in the R&D  pipeline  over 5 years and an 8% increase
    in the  number  of  preclinical  compounds  and a 12%  growth  in  U.S. IND
    applications.



<PAGE>


o   The Biotech industry has become a significant source of business for
    Huntingdon, accounting for approximately 13% of the company's orders in
    1998. The number of drugs produced by the  biotechnology  industry which
    require FDA approval has grown substantially over the past decade.  Many
    biotechnology  companies have  strategically  chosen  to  outsource  major
    areas of R&D and  utilize providers such as Huntingdon to perform these
    services.

Huntingdon  has worked  with  almost  all of the  world's  major  pharmaceutical
companies.  Many of  these  customers  have  come  to  regard  Huntingdon  as an
extension of their own resources, and the more closely the company is integrated
with customers the more efficient the service becomes. Huntingdon's objective is
to help these customers make  appropriate and timely  decisions and so help them
to complete their  development  programmes  effectively and efficiently.  Advice
from  scientific  experts  within  the  company,  given  in the  light  of  long
experience,  and effective programme  management,  can optimise drug development
within the strict requirements of the regulatory authorities.

Huntingdon  conducts  studies on a broad range of new therapeutic  agents,  from
small molecules to large monoclonal antibodies, the product of biopharmaceutical
research. The pharmaceutical market is dynamic and over recent years the pattern
of  drug  development  has  changed  markedly.  New  techniques  including  high
throughput  screening,  combinatorial  chemistry  and genomics are  dramatically
increasing the  productivity of drug discovery.  This will increase the focus on
the early stage  development  process,  including  Huntingdon's work to identify
those  compounds  which  have the  greatest  likelihood  of being  both safe and
effective.  Our  customers  are  dependent  on  selecting  the most  appropriate
compounds  from this  process  for their own  business  success  and  society is
excited by the potential they hold for improving our ability to treat disease.

Major pharmaceutical companies often have the resources to conduct most of their
own  non-clinical  testing  programmes  and  historically  have  tended  to only
commission   individual  studies  from  contract  research   organisations  like
Huntingdon.  However,  in the light of these  dynamic  changes in the  industry,
growing  numbers of companies find that it makes  strategic sense to concentrate
on their main area of research expertise - the drug discovery process.  The need
for toxicity and safety assessment  studies is driven and governed by regulatory
requirements  and so it is well  suited to being  out-sourced.  This  provides a
growing  opportunity  for  Huntingdon.  There is also a trend to out-source  the
management of larger programmes of work, not only individual  studies as was the
case in the past. Increasingly Huntingdon is becoming more closely involved with
customers  in  designing  development  strategies  geared to  specific  clinical
end-points and in the management of whole  programmes.  This is leading  towards
true partnerships with customers,  where Huntingdon is playing a meaningful role
in supporting and adding value to a customer's drug development efforts.  Beyond
the established major pharmaceutical  companies,  the new  biopharmaceutical and
other  start-up  companies  typically  do not have the  resources  to  undertake
non-clinical  studies  themselves  and  increasingly  rely totally upon contract
organisations  like  Huntingdon.  This sector of the market is growing  fast and
indications are that it will be an important part of the company's business over
the coming years, it already accounts for some 14% of revenues.

Restructuring  and  rationalisation  of the pharma  industry means that more and
more projects are being  outsourced.  Increasing  legislative  requirements have
extended  development  times and made careful  project  management  increasingly
important.  To address this situation integrated packages are being developed to
manage multidisciplinary development programmes.  Involvement in such integrated
projects is a long term  objective  of  Huntingdon  Life  Sciences,  but one-off
studies  will  probably  remain  an  essential  part  of the  business  for  the
foreseeable future.

In the  pharma  and  biopharmaceutical  areas,  the  company  has set itself the
following  objectives:
o  Strengthen  emphasis  on  "Early  Phase"  development services
o Develop new services to fill certain gaps that have been identified
o Build relationships which will strengthen the client portfolio.

Huntingdon offers a complete portfolio of non-clinical  services  throughout the
drug development process,  supporting customers around the world from facilities
in both the UK and the US. The company has recently developed  several
innovative  joint  venture  relationships  with  independent
Clinical  Research  Organisations to offer Phase I and IIa clinical  trials,  so
extending it's portfolio of integrated  services.  This will further  strengthen
Huntingdon's  ability to be the full service,  early development  partner to our
pharmaceutical and biopharmaceutical customers.

In the longer term, Huntingdon Life Sciences plans to optimise early development
in  pharmaceuticals,  extending  the  process  back to  interface  with the drug
discovery and  development  areas,  while at the same time  consolidating  their
already very strong position in non-clinical  research and providing  continuity
through the rest of the non-clinical development and testing process.


Non-pharmaceutical Business

Huntingdon has historically generated one third to one half of its revenues from
safety  and  efficacy  testing of  compounds  for the  agrochemical,  industrial
chemical,   veterinary  and  food  industries.  The  work  involved  bears  many
similarities  and  often  uses  many  of the  same  facilities,  equipment,  and
scientific   disciplines   that  are   employed  in   pre-clinical   testing  of
pharmaceutical  compounds.  Huntingdon's business in these areas is again driven
by regulatory  requirements.  The company's  services  address  safety  concerns
surrounding  a diverse range of products,  spanning  such areas as  agricultural
fertilizers  and  pesticides,   veterinary  medicines,  chemicals  used  in  the
manufacture of pharmaceutical intermediates and photocopier toners, manufactured
foodstuffs,  household products and even medical devices themselves. Many market
segments  included  in these  broad areas of  business  have the  potential  for
substantial growth in coming years, as a result of :

o   Increasing  scrutiny of any  compound  which is used in the  manufacture of
    products the public is exposed to,  either infrequently  or on a day-to-day
    basis.
o   More stringent  regulations  affecting compounds which have the potential to
    adversely effect the environment, e.g. biocides and endocrine disrupters.
o   Introduction of new testing requirements to `high volume chemical products'
    in the U.S.
o   Growth in concerns over food safety, e.g. additives and genetically
    modified  foods,   and  the  introduction  of  `nutraceuticals'.

Agrochemicals:  The  agricultural  chemical market has changed markedly over the
past few years.  Five years ago it was driven by the  requirements of individual
national  regulatory  authorities and was therefore very diverse and fragmented.
Now much of the legislation has been consolidated and simplified  throughout the
EU. This has reduced the number of individual studies performed, but at the same
time means that more integrated programmes are required. This gives Huntingdon's
scientists the opportunity to guide the customer through this complex regulatory
process and also to manage the whole project.  The company is currently  project
managing five major  integrated  programmes  on behalf of customers,  evaluating
toxicity  and  environmental  impact and  conducting  field trials which run for
several  years.  Huntingdon  is  widely  perceived  as  being a  full-capability
laboratory  for this  segment  and so the front  runner in this area of contract
research.

At least 50% of current work in this area is in environmental studies, where for
example, tests on the air we breathe are of increasing  importance.  The effects
of exhaust  emissions on the atmosphere have been studied over the past 20 years
and the company is recognised as a world leader in inhalation testing.

New research facilities are being developed and exploited, such as the mesocosms
being developed at the Huntingdon site. These have evolved from being laboratory
tools into  important  indicators  of the  effects of  pollutants  on a complete
biosphere, including all of the animal and plant life involved, and work in this
area is increasingly being demanded by regulatory authorities.

Industrial  Chemicals:  Huntingdon  has a significant  profile with the chemical
industry  world-wide,  frequently working with major consortia and trade groups.
Revenue from the industrial chemical business sector has doubled over the past 5
years  and  during  1998 the  company  worked  with over 250  client  companies.
Huntingdon is often involved in complete programmes  including safety,
environmental and analytical studies,  coupled with regulatory services and
dossier submissions  presented to Governments around the world.

A further  example of the work carried out by the company is the  development of
substitutes  for  ozone-depleting   chlorofluorocarbon  agents  (CFCs)  used  as
propellants and in refrigeration. Over the past two decades, Huntingdon has been
involved  in testing  nearly all of the new agents  developed  to replace  these
substances.The reappraisal of existing chemicals involving additional testing is
being  increasingly  demanded,  an example of this is the High Production Volume
Right  To Know ( HPV RTK )  programme  in the US.  This  is  being  driven  by a
collaboration of the environmentalist  lobby ( the Environmental Defence Fund ),
the  Environmental   Protection   Association  and  the  Chemical  Manufacturers
Association.  The initiative  demands that a set of toxicology and environmental
data be  submitted,  over a five  year  period,  on a list of 2800  high  volume
chemicals.  This is now being  broadened to 4000  chemicals  worldwide,  through
various  international  programmes.  With Huntingdon's  extensive  experience in
industrial  chemical  regulatory  programmes,  the  company is perhaps  uniquely
positioned to provide a `one stop shop' for manufacturers and consortia offering
regulatory  consultancy,   testing  and  programme  management  and  significant
business is expected as a result.

In the Industrial Chemicals areas, Huntingdon Life Sciences has set itself clear
objectives:

o Capitalise on the existing leadership position
o Fully exploit  current skills in Programme  Management in order to secure more
  major  projects
o Strengthen  the services and  facilities  to support  growing business
  opportunities
o Develop business in the U.S.A. and Far East markets.

Veterinary Medicines: Animal health product testing, both for farm and companion
animals,  is  a  rapidly  growing  business  area  for  Huntingdon.  Specialized
facilities  are now in place,  together with the regulatory  expertise,  to take
advantage of a prime opportunity to expand share in this niche market.

Foodstuffs: Huntingdon has been involved in the development of a number of novel
foodstuffs over the past decade. As the exciting new science of "nutraceuticals"
develops - foods which provide a clear human health benefit, such as lowering of
cholesterol levels it's anticipated that this demand will increase rapidly.

Service Markets

The table below  shows the  percentage  of total  orders for each market area of
Huntingdon's  business  for the 12 months  ended  December  31,  1997 and the 12
months ended December 31, 1998:

                                          1997                1998
                                       ----------          ---------
Pharmaceutical......................        45                  43
Biopharmaceutical...................        11                  13
Agrochemical........................        27                  26
Chemical and Other Industries.......        17                  18
                                       ----------          ---------
Total...............................       100%                100%
                                       ----------          ---------

Orders  in  1998  continued  to be  adversely  affected  by the  allegations  of
malpractice  made in  1997.  In  addition  financial  uncertainty  prior  to the
injection of new funding in September 1998 also led to the delay in placing, and
in some cases the loss, of new orders.

This  continues  to most  effect  Pharmaceutical  clients,  who  place a  higher
proportion  of longer term studies and who are subject  more to both  regulatory
and public  scrutiny.  Huntingdon  believes that its fall in orders from certain
pharmaceutical  study  sponsors  based in Europe  was also  partly  due to their
internal  considerations,  in the periods immediately following their merger, of
their R & D management processes and priorities.



<PAGE>


As noted earlier, a recovery in orders began to occur in the second half of 1998
and it was particularly pleasing to note that this recovery included the receipt
of a number of key orders from  pharmaceutical  clients  who had  stopped  using
Huntingdon in the prior 18 months .

The agrochemical  and chemical  sectors also undertook  inspections and examined
Huntingdon's  procedures but, in general individual study sponsors reached their
conclusion to continue to sponsor  studies at  Huntingdon  more quickly than the
pharmaceutical sector. Thus, although orders from agrochemicals fell, the orders
from the chemical sector remained at 1997 levels.

The key to the full  recovery of orders is  considered by management to be study
sponsors' confidence in Huntingdon's enhanced training, audit practices, and the
management processes of control

Huntingdon's largest client accounts for under 5% of its total orders. In the UK
the  largest  10 clients  contributed  under 30% of orders and in the USA the 10
largest clients provided approximately 68% of orders.


COMPETITION

Huntingdon is the second  largest  world-wide  provider of  pre-clinical  safety
testing services behind Covance. Other competitors are smaller and more regional
and/or specialized in their presence,  including ClinTrials  BioResearch Inc and
BioReliance  Corporation.  Huntingdon's other major competitors are the research
and  development  divisions  of large  companies  who  perform  their own safety
assessments in-house.

Competitors  also comply with GLP  guidelines and they are able to undertake the
more routine type of toxicology and pathology studies. Accordingly,  competition
for these types of studies is particularly  price sensitive.  Within  toxicology
and pathology there are also certain  particularly  demanding  studies for which
few CROs have either the scientific credibility or experience. Pricing for these
studies is  competitive  but  relatively  less so. It is believed that the final
determinant of study awards is quality and reliability in delivering  reports on
time to  clients.  This is  particularly  true in the case of the  more  complex
scientific  studies  in  which  Management  believes  Huntingdon  has  a  strong
reputation.   Furthermore,  customers  are  increasingly  demanding  outstanding
chemistry based  analytical  services partly as an adjunct to the toxicology and
pathology  studies  and  Management  believes  it is a  world  leader  in  these
services.  Huntingdon  also competes with the in-house  research and development
divisions within larger pharmaceutical companies who sometimes have a preference
to conduct their own safety assessments.

Other factors  enhancing  competitiveness  generally  include the quality of the
facilities  provided and the reputation and standing of its scientific staff, as
well as the acceptance by regulatory bodies of Huntingdon's  findings.  With the
need for quality in mind,  many staff possess  qualifications  of  post-graduate
degree or equivalent  standards upon joining the group, and staff are encouraged
to  pursue  formal  qualifications  related  to their  work in order to  further
strengthen their knowledge and capabilities.



<PAGE>


GOVERNMENT SUPERVISION OF OPERATIONS

Supervisory regimes

Since the services  provided by Huntingdon  are used to support  pharmaceutical,
biotechnological,  chemical or agrochemical product approval  applications,  its
laboratories are subject to both formal and informal  inspections by appropriate
regulatory  and  supervisory  authorities,  as well as by  representatives  from
client  companies.  Huntingdon  is  regularly  inspected  by  US,  Japan  and UK
governmental  agencies  because of the number and complexities of the studies it
undertakes.  In 1979, the US FDA promulgated the GLP  regulations,  defining the
standards under which biological safety  evaluations are to be conducted.  Other
governmental  agencies  such as the EPA,  JMOHW,  JMAFF,  and UK  Department  of
Health,  have  introduced   compliance  monitoring  programs  with  similar  GLP
standards.  Huntingdon has had over 30 such  inspection  visits and audits since
1985.

Huntingdon's  operations  in the UK are  regulated  by the  Animals  (Scientific
Procedures)  Act 1986.  This  legislation,  administered  by the UK Home Office,
provides  for  the  control  of  scientific  procedures  carried  out on  living
vertebrate animals and regulation of the animals' environment. Personal licences
(Huntingdon has approximately 300 licensees) are issued by the UK Home Office to
personnel who are competent to perform regulated  procedures and each program of
work must be  authorised  in  advance  by a  Project  Licensee.  Premises  where
procedures  are  carried  out must also be  formally  designated  by the UK Home
Office.  Consultations  and  inspections  are  regularly  undertaken in order to
ensure  continued  compliance  with  regulatory  and  legislative  requirements.
Typically, Huntingdon has 18 such inspections annually.

Huntingdon's  laboratory  in the USA is  subject to the  USDA's  Animal  Welfare
Regulations (Title 9, Code of Federal Regulations, Subchapter A). The laboratory
is regularly  inspected by USDA officials for compliance with these regulations.
Compliance is assured  through an  Institutional  Animal Care and Use Committee,
comprising  staff  from a broad  range  of  disciplines  within  Huntingdon  and
including  external  representation.  Furthermore,  laboratories  in the USA are
expected  by the USDA to be  certified  by an  independent  and  internationally
recognised  organisation,  the Association for Assessment and  Accreditation  of
Laboratory Animal Care (AAALAC).

At each of its research centres  Huntingdon ensures the availability of suitably
experienced and qualified veterinary staff backed by a 24 hour call out system.

COMPLIANCE WITH ENVIRONMENTAL REGULATIONS

Whilst  Huntingdon  is obliged in the  conduct of its  business  to comply  with
certain  environmental  regulations,  compliance with such  regulations does not
impact  significantly  on  its  earnings  or  competitive  position.  Management
believes  that its  operations  are  currently in material  compliance  with all
applicable environmental regulations.

OTHER INFORMATION PERTAINING TO THE COMPANY

Human Resources

Huntingdon's  most  important  resource is it's  people,  they have  created the
company's   knowledge  base,  it's  expertise  and  it's  excellent   scientific
reputation. Scientists from the company are represented at the highest levels in
several UK and international  committees on safety and toxicity testing. Several
staff members are  considered  leaders in their  respective  fields,  frequently
lecture at  scientific  seminars and  regularly  publish  articles in scientific
journals. This recognition has resulted in frequent assignments from clients for
consultation services in addition to the range of specialised services provided.
Some of  Huntingdon's  staff  serve by  invitation  or  election  on a number of
scientific and industrial  advisory  panels and groups of certain  organisations
and agencies such as the FDA, the EPA and UK Department of Health, and the WHO.

To ensure that this  experience  and  expertise is  transmitted  throughout  the
organisation,  training  programmes are  maintained,  for example,  Huntingdon's
Introductory and Advanced  Graduate Training Programs to train graduate staff in
all phases of  toxicology.  Also,  in  conjunction  with the Institute of Animal
Technology,  Huntingdon  maintains  what it  believes  to be one of the  largest
animal  technician  training   programmes  in  the  world.   Huntingdon  employs
approximately 300 licensed personnel.



<PAGE>


The table below shows employment has decreased throughout the Group as a result
of reduced activity levels:

                                         Employees at December 31
                                          1997                998
UK .................................      1,436             1,189
USA.................................        208               193
Japan................................         9                10
                                     --------------         -------------
                                           1,653            1,392
                                     --------------         -------------


Whilst staffing levels reduced during the year,  excess capacity remained and in
December,  1998 the Company  announced  a cost  reduction  programme  that would
include the alignment of staff  resources with current  revenues.  The programme
which commenced in January 1999 anticipates the reduction of  approximately  150
positions  and will leave the group with  approximately  1,250 staff.  The whole
operation is integrated  internationally to optimise the services  provided.  As
part of the  rejuvenation  process,  human resources will be carefully  studied,
with staff benefits tied to company performance.

Management and Labour Relations

Huntingdon's  labour force is non-union and there has never been any  disruption
of the business through strikes or other employee action.  Huntingdon  regularly
reviews its pay and benefits  packages and believes  that its labour  relations,
policies and practices and management  structure are  appropriate to support its
competitive position.

Research and Development

In addition to  experience  gained  through  research  activities  performed for
clients,  Huntingdon  engages in  research  in order to respond to the  changing
needs of clients and to maintain  competitiveness within the industries in which
it operates.  Most of the research  undertaken,  however, is an inherent part of
the research carried out on behalf of clients in completing  studies and as such
it is not identified separately.

Know-how and Patents

Huntingdon believes that its proprietary know-how plays an important role in the
success of its business.  Where Huntingdon  considers it appropriate,  steps are
taken to protect its know-how through confidentiality  agreements and protection
through  registration of title or use.  Huntingdon has no patents,  trade-marks,
licenses, franchises or concessions which are material and upon which any of the
services offered is dependent.

Quality Assurance

Huntingdon  maintains extensive quality assurance  programs,  designed to ensure
that all testing  programs  meet client  requirements,  as well as all  relevant
codes,   standards  and  regulations.   Based  on  a  Master  Schedule  periodic
inspections are conducted as testing  programs are performed to assure adherence
to  project  specifications  or  protocols  and final  reports  are  extensively
inspected  to ensure  consistency  with  data  collected.  Huntingdon's  quality
assurance  programs are  controlled by a formally  constituted  Quality Board, a
Quality Monitoring Committee and Quality Groups.





<PAGE>


ITEM 2. DESCRIPTION OF PROPERTIES

Huntingdon's head office is situated within the research centre at Huntingdon.

The  following  table  shows  the  location  of the  facilities  of  Huntingdon,
approximate size and the principal  activities conducted at such facilities each
of which is freehold:
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
Location                         Laboratories       Size            Principal Activities
                                 and Offices
<S>                             <C>                <C>             <C> 
Huntingdon, England              612,000 sq.ft.     74 acres        Laboratories, animal accommodation and
                                                                    offices
Near Princeton, NJ, USA          180,000 sq.ft.     53.5 acres      Laboratories, animal accommodation and offices
Near Diss, England               250,000 sq.ft.     28 acres        Laboratories, animal accommodation and
                                                                    offices
Wilmslow, England                92,000   sq.ft     38 acres        Currently unutilised
</TABLE>


ITEM 3. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS

Huntingdon is party to certain legal actions arising out of the normal course of
business.  In  Management's  opinion none of these  actions will have a material
effect  on the  Huntingdon's  operations  or  financial  condition.  No  form of
proceedings has, to Huntingdon's  knowledge,  been brought or instigated against
Huntingdon by any governmental agency.



ITEM 4. CONTROL OF REGISTRANT

The  Company is not owned or  controlled  directly  or  indirectly  by any other
corporation  or  government.  As of April  16,  1999 the  total  amounts  of the
Company's ordinary shares held by persons who have reported beneficial ownership
of more than ten  percent  of such  ordinary  shares,  and by the  officers  and
directors of the Company as a group were as follows:
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>

Name of Shareholder                            Number of Ordinary Shares Owned     Percentage Holding
<S>                                                   <C>                                <C> 
UBS UK Holding Ltd. and PDFM Ltd. group                51,706,751                         17.77

Stephens Group Inc                                     36,000,000                         12.37

Quilcap Corp and Quilcap International Corp            34,157,333                         11.74

Officers and Directors of the Company as a group

Mr A Baker                                             11,000,000                         3.77

Others                                                  1,017,768                        less than 1%

<FN>
Mr Baker's shares are registered in the name of Focused Healthcare Partners.

The Company knows of no arrangements  the operation of which may at a subsequent
date result in a change in the control of Company.
</FN>
</TABLE>


<PAGE>


ITEM 5. NATURE OF TRADING MARKET

The Company's  Ordinary Shares are listed on the London Stock Exchange Ltd under
the  Stock  Exchange  Automated  Quotation  symbol  "HTD."  ADSs  each of  which
evidences  five  Ordinary  Shares and which in turn are  evidenced by ADRs,  are
listed on the New York  Stock  Exchange,  Inc.  ("NYSE")  also  under the symbol
"HTD".

The Bank of New York is the  depositary for the Ordinary  Shares  represented by
ADSs.  As at December 31, 1998,  there were 182 recorded  holders of ADSs. It is
believed  that, at such date,  39,274,200  of the  Company's  total issued share
capital of 291,010,294  Ordinary Shares were held in the US and were represented
by 7,854,840 ADSs. The remaining  Ordinary Shares were, as at such date, held in
the UK in the form of  Ordinary  Shares  for which  there  were  2,273  recorded
holders.  The high and low  quarterly  sales prices (in pounds  sterling) of the
Company's  Ordinary  Shares on the London Stock Exchange from January 1, 1996 to
December 31, 1998 were as follows:

                                        HIGH SALES            LOW SALES
QUARTER ENDED                              PRICE                PRICE
                                     ------------------    ----------------
                                          (pound)              (pound)
March 31, 1996...................            0.76                 0.63
June 30, 1996....................            1.01                 0.78
September 30, 1996...............            0.965                0.73
December 31, 1996................             1.04                0.91

March 31, 1997...................             1.21                 0.875
June 30, 1997....................             1.175                0.61
September 30, 1997...............             0.635                0.43
December 31, 1997................             0.685                0.44

March 31, 1998...................             0.465                0.425
June 30, 1998....................             0.43                 0.175
September 30, 1998...............             0.20                 0.1275
December 31, 1998................             0.135                0.105 

The high and low quarterly  sales prices (in US dollars) of the Company's  ADSs,
as evidenced by ADRs, on the NYSE from January 1, 1996 to December 31, 1998 were
as follows:

                                           HIGH SALES           LOW SALES
QUARTER ENDED                                PRICE                PRICE
                                        ------------------    ----------------
                                                $                   $
March 31, 1996..........................      6.125                 4.375
June 30, 1996...........................      8.125                 5.750
September 30, 1996......................      7.50                  5.50
December 31, 1996.......................      8.5                   7.25

March 31, 1997..........................      9.875                 6.875
June 30, 1997...........................      9.375                 4.75
September 30, 1997......................      5.00                  3.4375
December 31, 1997.......................      5.375                 3.3125



March 31, 1998..........................      3.9375                3.4375
June 30, 1998...........................      3.75                  1.6250
September 30, 1998......................      1.6875                0.9375
December 31, 1998.......................      1.4375                0.8125


<PAGE>


ITEM 6.  EXCHANGE CONTROLS AND OTHER LIMITATIONS AFFECTING SECURITY HOLDERS

There are  currently  no UK exchange  control  restrictions  on  remittances  of
dividends on the  Company's  Ordinary  Shares or on the conduct of  Huntingdon's
operations.  There are no limitations imposed by UK law or by the Memorandum and
Articles of Association of the Company on the right of  non-resident  or foreign
owners  to hold or vote the  Ordinary  Shares  of the  Company  and,  except  as
discussed  below  under  "Taxation,"  there are not  believed to be any UK laws,
decrees or regulations that affect payments, to non-resident holders of Ordinary
Shares.

ITEM 7.  TAXATION

Taxation of Dividends

When  paying a dividend on  Ordinary  Shares,  the Company is liable to deduct a
withholding  tax of 15%  of the  gross  dividend  in  respect  of a US  resident
individual or corporate holder of an Ordinary Share or ADS (whose holding is not
effectively  connected  with a fixed  base in the UK through  which  independent
services are performed in the UK or with a permanent  establishment  in the UK).
Such tax credits and withholding tax may be reduced in the case of a corporation
controlling  directly  or  indirectly  10% or more of the  voting  shares of the
Company.  The gross  dividend  paid to any such US  resident  will be treated as
dividend  income for US Federal income tax purposes.  Such dividends will not be
eligible for the dividend  exclusion  allowed to US  corporations  under certain
circumstances.  However,  the 15%  withholding  tax will be  treated  as foreign
income tax eligible,  subject to certain  limitations,  for credit  against such
holder's US Federal income tax.

Taxation of Capital Gains

UK  capital  gains tax (or for  companies,  corporation  tax on  capital  gains)
generally  applies only to individuals  and companies  resident in the UK and is
currently levied at an individual's effective income tax rate of either 20%, 23%
or 40%, depending upon the level of the individual's income. The applicable rate
for companies is generally 31%, but it is reduced in certain  circumstances.  US
resident  holders of  Ordinary  Shares or ADSs will not be liable for UK capital
gains tax unless their holding in the Company is connected  with a trade carried
on  through a branch  or  agency in the UK.  However,  US  resident  holders  of
Ordinary  Shares or ADSs will  generally be liable for taxation of capital gains
upon a disposition  of such Ordinary  Shares or ADSs under US Federal income tax
laws.

Estate and Gift Tax

The current Estate and Gift Tax Convention (the "Convention") between the UK and
the US  generally  relieves  from UK  inheritance  tax the  transfer of Ordinary
Shares  or of ADSs  where the  shareholder  or  holder  of the ADSs  making  the
transfer is domiciled for the purposes of the Convention in the US, and is not a
national of the UK. This will not apply if the Ordinary  Shares or ADSs are part
of the  business  related  to the  fixed  base in the UK of a  person  providing
independent  personal  services.  If no  relief is given  under the  Convention,
inheritance tax may, in general terms, be charged upon the value of the transfer
made on the death of an individual  or within the 7 years of his death,  subject
to any  applicable  exemptions  and reliefs.  In the unusual case where Ordinary
Shares or ADSs are subject to both UK inheritance tax and US gift or estate tax,
the Convention  generally provides for tax paid in the UK to be credited against
tax payable in the US based on priority rules set forth in the Convention.

Stamp Duty

No stamp duty will be payable  in the UK on the  acquisition  of ADSs by persons
purchasing such ADSs or on any subsequent  transfer of an ADS, provided that the
ADRs  evidencing  such ADSs  remain at all times  outside  the UK.  The issue of
Ordinary  Shares by the Company to the  depositary  of the  Company's  ADSs (the
"depositary")  for the purpose of issuing ADRs, or a transfer of the  underlying
Ordinary  Shares to the  depositary,  are subject to a Stamp Duty Reserve Tax at
the  rate  of  1.5%,  calculated  on  the  issue  price  or  the  value  of  the
consideration   for  the  transfer  or  the  market  value,   depending  on  the
circumstances of the transaction.

In the case of a transfer of the underlying Ordinary Shares to the Depositary, a
separate ad valorem stamp duty at the rate of 1.5% will be charged,  but in such
circumstances  credit  will be given for the Stamp  Duty  Reserve  Tax due.  Any
transfer of the underlying  Ordinary  Shares other than to the  depositary  will
require the purchaser to pay a 0.5% ad valorem stamp duty.



<PAGE>


ITEM 8. SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA

The following financial information has been prepared under the principles which
together  make up US GAAP.  These  financial  statements  have been  reviewed by
independent auditors

Additional  profit and loss  information for 1996, 1997 and 1998 can be found on
pages F2 - F24 as required by the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 in relation to
this report.  Further,  balance sheet  information is similarly  available as at
December 31, 1997 and as at December 31, 1998.
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                              12 Months Ended            3 Months Ended                    12 Months ended
                               September 30               December 31                       December 31
                               ------------               -----------                       -----------
                            1994          1995                1995             1996            1997            1998
                         (AMOUNTS IN STERLING THOUSANDS, EXCEPT PER SHARE DATA)
INCOME STATEMENT DATA
<S>                      <C>           <C>                 <C>               <C>             <C>             <C>
Revenues                   162,489       81,877              14,285           73,564          63,689          52,616
Net Income/(loss)         (58,646)      (31,538)            (3,001)            7,871          (2,882)         (24,437)
Operating profit/(loss)     4,528        7,196               1,397            11,799          (5,188)         (18,005)
from continuing
operations
Earnings/(loss)     per(pound)(0.595)(pound)(0.316)      (pound)(0.028)    (pound)0.073   (pound)(0.026)  (pound)(0.138)
share - basic   (A)
</TABLE>

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                             As at September 30                    As at December 31
                          -------------------------     -----------------------------------------


                              1994         1995          1995         1996         1997      1998
                              ----         ----          ----         ----         ----      ----

                          (AMOUNTS IN STERLING THOUSANDS)
BALANCE SHEET
<S>                       <C>           <C>          <C>          <C>          <C>       <C>
Total Assets               134,918       62,704       103,771      108,924      112,461   110,137
Long-term debt                           33,441        50,377       42,654       33,691    54,688
                             9,576
Shareholders' equity        34,812        3,283         6,601       14,586       17,362    13,311
<FN>

(A)      Based upon an average of 177,199,772 (1997: 112,935,450;
         1995: 108,492,218;  1995,  99,865,393;  1994, 98,545,843) Ordinary
         Shares outstanding.

         See page (i) for information relating to exchange rates.

</FN>
</TABLE>


<PAGE>


ITEM 9. MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION
        AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

GENERAL

Huntingdon is a leading CRO which  provides an extensive  range of  pre-clinical
and  non-clinical  services to the  pharmaceutical,  agrochemical and industrial
chemical industries. The Group provides those services under contracts which may
range from one day to three years,  income from these contracts is recognised on
the  basis of work  done and  variable  costs  are  matched  with  such  income.
Contracts  are  generally  terminable  upon notice by the client with the client
being  responsible for reimbursing  Huntingdon for the value of work done to the
date of cancellation  plus the value of work required to wind down a study on an
orderly basis.

The Group's  business is  characterised by high fixed costs, in particular staff
and facility related costs. Such a high proportion creates favourable conditions
for the Group as excess  capacity is utilised but,  during  periods of declining
revenue,  careful planning is required to reduce costs without impairing revenue
generating activities.


RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

12 months ended December 31, 1998 compared with the 12 months ended December 31,
1997.

Beginning  mid  1997,   orders  and  backlog  declined  sharply   following  the
allegations of malpractice and  mistreatment of animals.  This continued to have
an impact  in 1998,  but by the end of the year  (after  the  refinancing  noted
below) client  confidence  began to return and a modest increase in order volume
was being  experienced.  Although  full year 1998 new orders  were 3% lower than
1997, the year-end  backlog was up 7% from 1997 and 12% ahead of the August 1998
level.

The revenue decline in 1998 was more dramatic than the fall in orders due to the
long term nature of many of the contracts under which  Huntingdon does business,
and reflected  the steep  reduction in orders in 1997.  Revenues at  (pound)52.6
million in 1998 were 17% down from 1997  revenue  of  (pound)63.7  million.  The
Company's  operating  capacity,  which had increased modestly in 1997 before the
full impact of the order rate decline was felt, was reduced  throughout the year
through  natural  attrition  and the closure of the  Wilmslow  Research  Centre.
However,  new management  believed that further  reductions were  appropriate to
align staffing with the reduction in revenues which the Company had experienced,
and in December 1998 a cost reduction programme was announced. This included the
elimination  of  approximately   150  positions  and  the   rationalisation   of
capabilities  within the UK. This programme is intended to reduce the total cost
base by approximately (pound)6 million per annum.

Overall operating costs (before  exceptional  items) in 1998 were up (pound)0.7m
to  (pound)65.9m  (1% up on 1997)  and  losses  prior to  exceptional  items and
interest increased from (pound)1.5m to (pound)13.3m.

Exceptional losses during the year were(pound)14.9 million (1997:(pound)1.4
million).  These arose from

(i) Closure  of the  Group 's UK site at  Wilmslow  and  write  down of  related
    assets.  Redundancy and related costs amount to (pound)0.3 million and asset
    write down (pound)2.9 million.

(ii)The  December  1998  cost  reduction   programme   designed  to  rationalise
    capabilities  in the UK. The cost of this  programme is  (pound)3.5  million
    including asset write offs of (pound)0.5 million.

(iii) The write off of the  unamortised  balance of the goodwill  arising on the
    acquisition  of  businesses  in 1995 of  (pound)7.3  million.  Following the
    decline in revenues and the successful integration of the businesses this no
    longer has any intrinsic value

(iv) A review of asset values in the UK resulting in accelerated depreciation of
(pound)0.9million.

Net interest expense rose by (pound)1.9  million (51%) to (pound)5.5  million in
1998.  In part this arose from the  increase  in net bank debt during 1997 and a
further  increase in the first eight months of 1998. (At March, 31 1997 net bank
debt  was  (pound)13.5  million  and  peaked  in  August  1998 at  approximately
(pound)25 million). In addition the need to review the facility in February 1998
and August  1998,  coupled with the  complete  renegotiation  of the facility in
September 1998, led to charges of (pound)1.2  million in respect of the facility
during 1998 (1997: (pound)0.1 million).



<PAGE>


Taxation relief on losses at (pound)9.0  million  represent relief at 27% versus
the UK statutory rate of 31%. This reduction  arises  primarily from the lack of
relief on the write off of goodwill.

Overall the net loss at (pound)24.4  million is (pound)21.5  million higher than
the net loss of  (pound)2.9  million  reported  in 1997.  Net loss per share has
risen from 2.6p for 1997 to 13.8p for 1998.

UK GAAP Reconciliation

The Group reports  primarily in UK GAAP as it is  incorporated in the UK and the
majority  of its  operations  and  assets are based in the UK.  These  financial
statements are presented in US GAAP in order to provide  additional  information
to the Group's US investors.

A  reconciliation  between  the results  announced  in the UK (under UK GAAP) to
those presented in these financial statements is shown below:

                                           1997                   1998
                                    (pound)'000             (pound)'000
Net loss per UK GAAP                     (5,312)                (24,863 )
Recognition of pension costs              (247)                   (676)
Goodwill                                  (194)                 (7,342 )
Revaluation reserve                       (119)                     -
Deferred taxation                         2,990                   8,444
                                                              --------------
                                      ---------------
Net loss per US GAAP                     (2,882)                (24,437)
                                      ---------------         --------------

The principal differences arise as follows

(i) Deferred Income Taxes:- Under UK GAAP, a provision for deferred taxes is not
    required  on timing  differences  that are not  expected  to result in a tax
    liability in the future.  US GAAP  requires that a deferred tax provision is
    made for all significant timing differences, using the liability method.
(ii)Goodwill:- Under UK GAAP,  purchased  goodwill has been written off directly
    to reserves. US GAAP requires that goodwill is capitalised,  and written off
    over its useful life to the profit and loss account.  In  subsequent  years,
    goodwill  carried  forward  is  assessed  based  on its fair  value  and any
    permanent impairment is written off at the time it is identified.
(iii) Pension Cost.  Under UK GAAP,  the pension costs charged to the profit and
    loss account are  calculated in accordance  with SSAP24.  Under US GAAP, the
    pension  costs  charged to the profit and loss  account  are  calculated  in
    accordance with FAS87.

12 months ended December 31, 1997 compared with the 12 months ended December 31,
1996.

Huntingdon's  revenues  declined(pound)9.9 million (13%) to(pound)63.7 million
in the 12 months ended December 31, 1997 from(pound)73.6 million in the
previous year.

Following the  allegations  of  malpractice  made in the UK and USA study starts
were lower than expected due to both delay and  cancellation  of studies and due
to a significant reduction in orders for new studies.

Historically  the  business  has been  subject  to study  sponsors  occasionally
requesting study delays,  deferrals or postponements.  However,  in the past the
study sponsor was often able to bring forward an alternative  test material from
its research  pipeline and, on occasions  Huntingdon also had the flexibility to
bring forward a study from its backlog.  However,  during 1997, due primarily to
the allegations,  study sponsors were unwilling to authorise early initiation of
their studies and as a result delays,  deferrals and  postponements had a bigger
impact on revenues than in previous years.

Total orders in 1997 at (pound)58.5  million compare with (pound)76.4 million in
1996, a decrease of 24%.  Huntingdon's  results announced for the 3 months ended
March 31, 1997 were  comparable with the strong first quarter in the prior year.
However , as a result of the impact of the  allegations  there followed a sudden
and significant fall in orders which, setting aside July 1997, didn't show any
recovery until the fourth quarter 1997.

Costs (excluding  exceptional items) increased from (pound)61.8  million in 1996
to (pound)65.2 million in 1997, or by 5.5%. This increase included half a year's
operation  at the  Wilmslow  site  and also the  costs  of  staffing  up the new
chemistry  facility at  Princeton  ready for  operation  in June 1997.  As costs
largely comprise fixed expenditure on payroll, facilities and infrastructure, in
the short  term a fall in  revenue  has a direct  impact on  profitability.  The
operating  loss  (before  exceptional  items)  was  (pound)1.5  million  in 1997
compared to a profit of (pound)11.8 million in 1996.

Exceptional  losses  during  the year were  (pound)3.5  million  and  related to
resolving  issues arising from the allegations of  malpractice.  The exceptional
gain  of  (pound)2.1  million  in  1997  represents  Huntingdon's  share,  after
provision for costs and liabilities,  of the expected cash distribution from the
joint  administrators  of the  Travers  Morgan  Group to secured  and  unsecured
creditors.

Overall the net loss at(pound)2.8 million  compared to a net profit of
(pound)7.9 million in 1996.  Net loss per share was 2.6p (1996 earnings per
share 7.3p).


LIQUIDITY & CAPITAL RESOURCES

The poor trading results put a heavy strain on cash  resources.  Despite receipt
of  (pound)2.2  million  from  the  administrators  of  Travers  Morgan,   other
improvements in working  capital of (pound)0.6  million and a refund of (pound)1
million UK  corporation  tax, cash absorbed by  operations  totalled  (pound)9.5
million in 1998. This utilised the Company's available facilities.

The  Company's  bankers  provided  extra  facilities  of (pound)5  million and a
bridging  facility of (pound)1  million in the first nine months of 1998 however
these  facilities,  in line  with the  other  bank  debts of the  Company,  were
repayable  on  demand.  Given the  medium to long  term  element  of many of the
Company's  activities  and the reluctance of clients to place new work until the
Company's finances were stabilised, the Company required a substantial injection
of finance to both  initially  restore  confidence  and then to fund  operations
during the period until the Company returned to profitability.

On September 2, 1998 a Group of new investors  subscribed  (pound)15 million for
120 million  ordinary  shares whilst  existing  shareholders  and  institutional
investors took up a further 57 million shares,  contributing (pound)7.1 million.
After  expenses of (pound)1.7  million,  the issue of shares raised  (pound)20.4
million.  On the same date the Company's  bankers  agreed to confirm and fix the
Company's  facilities at (pound)24.5 million until August 31, 2000.  Accordingly
bank debt is now shown within liabilities repayable after more than one year.

As at  December  31, 1998 the bank  facility  is fully  drawn down.  Interest is
payable in quarterly breaks at"LIBOR" plus 1.75 per cent per annum in respect of
drawings  up to  (pound)19,500,000  and  LIBOR  plus 1 per  cent in  respect  of
drawings over  (pound)19,500,000.The  interest rate payable at December 31, 1998
is 8.422 per cent on (pound)19,500,000 and 7.672 per cent on (pound)5,000,000.

Of the (pound)20.4  million  injected,  (pound)13.3  million remained in hand on
short term  deposit as at  December  31,1998.  The  (pound)7.1  million of funds
absorbed were utilised as follows:

                                                            (pound)'million
Operating loss excluding exceptionals and depreciation           2.5
Exceptional items                                                0.8
Interest and bank charges paid                                   2.6
Bank bridging loan repaid                                        0.4
Non bank loans repaid                                            0.5
Capital expenditure                                              0.7
Working capital movements                                       (0.4)
                                                           ---------------
                                                                 7.1
                                                           ---------------


<PAGE>


The  remainder of the  Company's  long term  finance is provided by  Convertible
Capital Bonds repayable in 2006. Bonds totalling $50 million were issued in 1991
and remained  outstanding  as at December 31, 1998.  The Bonds carry interest at
7.5%, payable at six-monthly breaks in March and September. The conversion rate,
which is based upon a fixed rate of exchange of (pound)1.00=US  $1.6825 is 242.3
pence per Ordinary Share and is subject to adjustment in certain circumstances.

In addition (pound)3.3 million of the consideration  payable for the purchase of
the Wilmslow  Research  Centre  (acquired in 1997)  remained  outstanding  as at
December 31, 1998. This debt bears no interest and although  (pound)2 million is
repayable in quarterly  instalments in 1999 and (pound)1.3  million is repayable
in 2000,  the full  amount is classed  as due  within one year as the  Company's
intention is to sell the site.  Such a disposal  would render the debt repayable
upon demand.

Cash available for capital expenditure during the year was limited and additions
to fixed assets were only (pound)2.4  million.  This expenditure was prioritised
toward improvements in data capture systems and animal welfare enhancements.

YEAR 2000

The Group utilises  software and related computer  technologies in the provision
of  services  to  clients.  These  technologies  are an  essential  part  of its
operations and since 1996 the Group has been  implementing a strategy to replace
its computer infrastructure,  software applications and equipment to ensure that
all  critical  services  and controls  will  operate  efficiently,  on and after
January 1, 2000.

In the UK the  strategy  is being  executed  under the  guidance  of a Year 2000
Committee,  currently chaired by the Finance Director.  This Committee comprises
representatives  from all areas of the Group's UK operations and reports back on
a regular basis to both executive management and the Board of Directors.  In the
US the  strategy is being  executed by local  management  reporting  into the US
president,  who in turn reports back on a regular basis to executive  management
in the UK and hence to the Board of Directors.

State of readiness

The strategy is broken down into a number of key phases.  These are as follows:-

o    Confirmatory audit of all software, electronic and electrical equipment.

o    Questionnaires sent to all known suppliers of software, electronic
     and  electrical  equipment for  information on status of Year 2000
     compliance supported by supplier audits where appropriate.

o    Assessment of all software, electronic and electrical equipment to identify
     those critical to the business.

o    Testing  of items  identified  as  critical to the  business for Year 2000
     compliance, where practical.

o    Corrective  actions  to  ensure items are Year  2000 compliant, including
     contingency plans where appropriate.

The  confirmatory  audit is  intended  to  cover  all of the  Group's  software,
electronic and electrical equipment including computer related hardware, network
equipment,   computer  related  software  (internally  and  externally  written)
telephones,   scientific   instrumentation   and  other   equipment   (including
environmental   control  systems).   Thisaudit   together  with  the  subsequent
assessment  of risks to the  business  through  failure of  critical  systems or
equipment is substantially complete and testing is underway.

Most  of the  major  software  systems  supporting  the  Group's  business  were
identified  and assessed last year.  Where the systems in use were not Year 2000
compliant  corrective  actions,  including  the  implementation  of new software
packages, are underway.

In  addition  to the  questioning  and  auditing  of  software,  electronic  and
electrical equipment  suppliers,  the Group is conducting an assessment of other
material third party relationships for Year 2000 compliance. These third parties
include utility  companies and specific product  suppliers,  such as animal feed
and laboratory  consumables  suppliers.  These  suppliers are being requested to
provide  the  details  of their  Year 2000  compliance  programme.  In  addition
contingency  plans are being formulated where there is a high risk of disruption
to the Group's  business or where there is an impact on animal  welfare due to a
Year 2000 problem at these suppliers.

While the Group is taking steps to raise  awareness of the Year 2000 issue among
its customers, the Group does not believe it is appropriate to require customers
to certify their Year 2000  compliance.  For the fiscal year ended  December 31,
1998 the Group had no single  customer  which  accounted for more than 5% of its
net revenues.


Cost of Year 2000 project

Since 1996 the Group has  incurred  costs  relating to the Year 2000 project and
expects to continue incurring such costs through to the end of 2000. These costs
fall into two categories, amounts that are or will be expensed as incurred (such
as payroll costs of  individuals  working on the project,  the costs of external
consultants  assisting on the project but not engaged on major software projects
due to be  capitalised,  and the  write  off of the book  value of non Year 2000
compliant  assets) and amounts that will be capitalised and depreciated over the
useful  lives of the  associated  assets (the  purchase  price of new  hardware,
software and other equipment acquired to replace existing hardware, software and
other equipment that is not Year 2000 compliant).

The Group currently  estimates that the amounts that have or will be expensed as
incurred  over the three year  period to December  31,  2000 will total  between
(pound)850,000  and (pound)950,000 of these amounts a total of (pound)10,000 has
been  incurred and  expensed in the year to December 31, 1998.  The amounts that
will be capitalised will be primarily  incurred in the two years to December 31,
1999 are estimated at  (pound)2,100,000 of this (pound)275,000 has been incurred
in the year to December 31, 1998.


Risk of Year 2000 problems

The Group has identified the following major potential risks resulting from Year
2000 problems. All would result in disruption to existing and future studies and
have an adverse  impact on the health and well being of animals.  The subsequent
impact on  business  and cash flow could have a material  adverse  effect on the
Group's financial condition.

o  The loss of power and utility services

o  The inability to obtain timely and sufficient laboratory supplies and animal
   feed

o  The failure or malfunction of computer  hardware, software and technology
   embedded in scientific and other equipment.

In addition  major  disruption to customers'  business due to Year 2000 problems
could have a major impact on the Group's cashflows and financial condition

Contingency Plans

The Group has developed or is in the process of developing contingency plans for
processes  and  supplies  that  are  critical  to its  operations  and  that are
dependent on computer software,  hardware and embedded  technology,  where it is
not possible to confirm that the underlying  technology is Year 2000  compliant,
or where it is not possible to upgrade the technology to Year 2000 compliance.

Contingency  plans  include  the  utilisation  of back-up  generators  for power
supplies;  identifying alternative suppliers for reagents, animal feed and other
supplies or stock piling supplies where appropriate;  and increased manning over
the new year to operate systems manually in the case of failure.

Those  plans not yet in place will be  developed  on a case by case basis with a
target completion date of June 30, 1999. Contingency plans themselves,  however,
are  subject  to  variables  and  uncertainties  and  therefore  there can be no
assurance that the Group will correctly anticipate the level, impact or duration
of non  compliance  of computer  hardware,  software,  systems or  customers  or
suppliers/service  providers or that its contingency plans will be sufficient to
mitigate the impact of non-compliance.  Thus, there can be no assurance that the
Year 2000 problem,  even after giving effect to the implementation of applicable
contingency  plans,  will not occur and that such an  occurrence  could  leave a
material adverse impact on the Group's business, financial condition, results of
operations and cashflows.

EXCHANGE RATE FLUCTUATIONS AND EXCHANGE CONTROLS

In 1998 following the slight  strengthening  of sterling  against the US dollar,
net  liabilities  denominated  in US dollars  (mainly  $50  million  Bonds) have
decreased  in value on  consolidation  to  sterling.  This does not  affect  the
cashflow  of  Huntingdon  but  has  decreased  the  reported  loss  before  tax,
accounting  largely for the  unrealised  gain on exchange of (pound)0.3  million
reported  in these  results.  This  compares  with an  exchange  loss in 1997 of
(pound)1.1 million.

Interest  on the Bonds is payable  half-yearly  (in March and  September)  in US
dollars and the impact of fluctuations in the exchange rate between sterling and
US dollars is offset by US dollar denominated revenues receivable by Huntingdon.
Although  reported results have been affected by conversion into sterling of the
Bonds on consolidation  and there may be an impact in the future,  the Directors
have decided not to hedge against this exposure.  Such a hedge might impact upon
Huntingdon's  cash flow compared with movements on the Bonds which do not affect
cash flow in the medium term.

Huntingdon  operates on a worldwide basis and generally  invoices its clients in
the  currency  of the  country in which it  operates.  Thus,  for the most part,
exposure to exchange rate  fluctuations  is limited as sales are  denominated in
the same currency as costs. Trading exposures to currency  fluctuations do occur
as a result of certain  sales  contracts,  performed  in the UK for US  clients,
which are  denominated in US dollars and contribute  approximately  14% of total
revenues. Huntingdon has not experienced difficulty in transferring funds to and
receiving funds remitted from those  countries  outside the US or UK in which it
operates and Management expects this situation to continue.

Whilst the UK has not at this time  entered the  European  Monetary  Union,  the
Company has ascertained  that its financial  systems are capable of dealing with
Euro denominated transactions. In addition upgrades which are currently underway
(to ensure that the financial  systems are Year 2000 compliant) will ensure that
the Company, if ever required to do so, will be able to report in Euro's.


<PAGE>


ITEM 10. DIRECTORS AND OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT

The  Articles of  Association  of the  Company  provide  that,  unless and until
otherwise  determined by ordinary  resolution passed at a general meeting of the
Company,  the directors  shall be not less than two in number and there shall be
no maximum number of directors. The Company may by ordinary resolution passed at
a general meeting of the Company appoint any person to be a director,  either to
fill a casual vacancy or as an addition to the existing board of directors.  Any
director  appointed by the board of  directors  holds office only until the next
following general meeting and shall then be eligible for  re-appointment  but he
is not taken into account in determining  the directors or the number who are to
retire by rotation at such meeting. At every annual general meeting one third of
the directors  (being those who do not wish to be  re-appointed or who have been
the longest in office  since their last  appointment)  must retire from  office.
Directors  so  retiring  may  be  removed  from  office  by  resolution  of  the
shareholders.  The  Board  appointed  A H  Baker,  B Cass,  F W  Bonner  and J T
Griffiths as Directors on September 2, 1998,  September 17, 1998,  September 17,
1998 and April 16, 1999 respectively.  M Sandford, C M Macdonald, C F Cliffe, LO
Rice and R E H Slater resigned as Directors on April 16, 1999, January 31, 1999,
December 31, 1998,  September 2, 1998 and 15 May, 1998  respectively.  The table
below sets forth certain information with respect to the directors and executive
officers of the Company as at April 16, 1999:

Name                 Office Held                                     Appointed
Andrew H Baker       Director                                         1998
                     Chairman of the Board                            1998
Brian Cass           Director                                         1998
                     Managing Director/Chief Operating Officer        1998
Frank W Bonner       Director                                         1998
                     Director of Science and Technology               1998
John Caldwell        Director                                         1997
Julian T Griffiths   Director                                         1999
                     Finance Director                                 1999
Roger A. Pinnington  Director                                         1994
Susan G Hide         Secretary                                        1998

No  director  or  executive  officer  has a family  relationship  with any other
director or executive officer.



ITEM 11.  COMPENSATION OF DIRECTORS AND OFFICERS

In the 12 months  ended  December  31, 1998 the  aggregate  compensation  of the
executive   directors   and   officers  as  a  group,   paid  or  accrued,   was
(pound)1,065,147.

The services of Mr Baker are provided  through a management  services  agreement
with Focused  Healthcare  Partners  ("FHP"),  the vehicle through which Mr Baker
provides  his  services.   The  agreement  provides  for  a  minimum  notice  of
termination by the Company of twelve months.

Mr Cass has a service contract  providing for a minimum notice of termination by
the Company of two years,  following an initial  fixed period of twelve  months.
The  contract  provides  for  liquidated  damages  amounting to two years' basic
salary and an amount  equal to twice the  annual  average  of  bonuses,  if any,
received during the two financial years of the Company  immediately  preceding a
change of control of the Company (as  defined in the  service  contract)  in the
event of termination  in certain  circumstances.  The Board has determined  that
both the period of notice  required for termination of Mr Cass' contract and the
change of control provisions are warranted by Mr Cass' value to the Company.

Dr Bonner and Mr Griffiths each have service  contracts  providing for a minimum
notice of termination by the Company of twelve months.

The services of Mr Pinnington are provided through a consultancy  agreement with
Harford Consultancy  Services Ltd ("Harford") a company owned and operated by Mr
Pinnington. The agreement provides for a notice of termination by the Company
of one month. Messrs Baker, Cass,  Griffiths and Pinnington and Dr Bonner
retire at the Annual General Meeting but will offer themselves for re-election.
The Company operates a  discretionary  bonus  plan  for  executive  directors
and  key  managers  of Huntingdon  based upon  improvements  to  operating
income and  achievement  of pre-defined targets.  Bonus awards to directors and
officers are administered by the Remuneration Committee.  The Committee
believes that the discretionary bonus payments to Mr Cliffe in 1996 and to Mr
Rice, Prof.Caldwell and Mr Baker in 1998 reflects their  respective
contribution  to the  development of Huntingdon. No bonus awards were made in
respect of 1997.

The following table shows the remuneration of Directors in the 12 Months ended
December 31, 1998,  December 31, 1997, and December 31, 1996;
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
Name of Director                  1996          1997    Salary/Fee           Pension  Other            Other          1998
- ----------------                  ----          ----    ----------           -------  ------           -----          ----
                                                                                      payments
                             12 Months     12 Months                   Contributions                Benefits     12 Months
                             ---------     ---------                   -------------                --------     ---------
                              (pound)       (pound)         (pound)         (pound)     (pound)      (pound)       (pound)
<S>                           <C>           <C>           <C>                <C>        <C>          <C>
Mr A H Baker  (i), (iii)             -             -        50,000                 -      60,000      19,231       129,231
Mr F W Bonner (i)                    -             -        40,444             2,022           -           -        42,466
Mr B Cass (i)                        -             -        46,695            15,565                  11,207        73,467
Mr C F Cliffe (iii)            261,858       238,877       187,200            25,200     250,000      17,500       479,900
Dr C M Macdonald                     -         3,787        98,000             9,000           -       9,000       116,000
Mr M Sandford                        -        63,679        70,000             7,700                   9,000        86,700
Mr R A Pinnington               86,936        86,768        57,096                 -           -      10,320        67,416
Prof. J Caldwell  (iii)              -         2,000        20,000                 -       9,000           -        29,000
Mr L O Rice (iii)               20,000        20,000        13,467                 -      20,000           -        33,467
Mr R E H Slater (ii)            20,000        20,000         7,500                 -           -           -         7,500
<FN>
(i)      From appointment
(ii)     In addition, professional fees amounting to (pound)Nil (12 months ended
         December 31,  1997(pound)40,954  ; 12 months ended  September 30, 1996:
         (pound)58,608)  were paid to  Simmons &  Simmons,  the firm in which Mr
         Slater is a partner, in
         respect of the period  ended May 15, 1998.
(iii)    The other  payments to Mr Rice,  Prof.  Caldwell and Mr Baker are bonuses.
         The other  payment  to Mr Cliffe is in  respect of the termination of his
         employment.
</FN>
</TABLE>

The following table shows the pensions benefits (excluding  additional voluntary
contributions and inflation) earned by Directors in the Huntingdon Scheme in the
12 months ended December 31, 1998:

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
     Name of Director       Increase in accrued pension      Transfer value of     Accumulated total accrued pension
                                  during the year              increase (i)                 at year-end (ii)
                                     (pound)                     (pound)                      (pound)
<S>                                   <C>                        <C>                            <C> 
Mr C F Cliffe                          3,001                      31,668                         16,790
Dr C M Macdonald                       2,491                      32,160                         5,633
Mr M Sandford                          1,549                       9,733                         7,975
<FN>
 (i)     Calculated in accordance with Actuarial Guidance Note GN11

(ii)     Payable annually on retirement
</FN>
</TABLE>

<PAGE>


ITEM 12.  OPTIONS TO PURCHASE SECURITIES FROM THE REGISTRANT

The  Unapproved  Share Option Plan.  On April 8, 1983,  the Company  adopted the
Unapproved Share Option Plan (the  "Unapproved  Plan") pursuant to which options
to acquire  Ordinary  Shares may be  granted  to any person who is  required  to
devote  substantially  the whole of his time  (being  not less than 25 hours per
week)  to  serve  as a  Director  or  employee  of  the  Company  or  one of its
subsidiaries.  The maximum  number of Ordinary  Shares which may be issued under
the  Unapproved  Plan  according to the rules thereof is 10% of the issued share
capital of the Company  from time to time,  less options  outstanding  under the
Approved Plan from time to time.
 An option granted  pursuant to the  Unapproved  Plan may be exercised two years
after the grant in respect of not more than 50% of the Ordinary  Shares  subject
to the option.  An option may be exercised in full between three and seven years
after the grant in respect of the  unexercised  balance of the  Ordinary  Shares
subject to the option.  Options may be  exercised  earlier in certain  specified
circumstances,  including a change in control of 25% or more of the  outstanding
Ordinary Shares of the Company.  The Approved  Management  Share Option Plan. On
January 29, 1985,  the Company  adopted a second share option plan, the Approved
Management Share Option Plan (the "Approved  Plan"),  which has been approved by
the Board of Inland Revenue (the "Inland  Revenue")  pursuant to the Finance Act
1984.  The rules of the  Approved  Plan broadly  follow those of the  Unapproved
Plan,  except that an option may be  exercised,  subject to certain  exceptions,
only between  three and ten years after it is granted.  Pursuant to the Approved
Plan,  options to acquire  Ordinary  Shares  may be granted to any  Director  or
employee of the Company  whose  terms of  employment  require him to work for at
least thirty-seven and one-half hours per week. Approval of the Approved Plan by
the Inland Revenue means that important  personal tax  concessions are available
to  participants  who reside in the U.K. The maximum  number of Ordinary  Shares
which may be issued under the Approved  Plan  according to the rules  thereof is
10% of the issued  share  capital from time to time,  less  options  outstanding
under the Unapproved  Plan from time to time.  Both the Unapproved  Plan and the
Approved  Plan  terminated on December 31, 1997 with respect to the grant of new
options.  Options outstanding at that date are not affected by such termination.
The grant of options under both the Unapproved  Plan and the Approved Plan was a
matter  for the  discretion  of the  Board  of  Directors  of the  Company.  The
consideration  payable  to the  Company  for the grant of an  option to  acquire
Ordinary  Shares was the sum of (pound)1.  The exercise price per share at which
an  option  may be  exercised  is  equal to the  average  of the  middle  market
quotations  on the  International  Stock  Exchange  of the  United  Kingdom  and
Republic of Ireland Ltd. for the Ordinary  Shares on the five dealing days prior
to the date of grant or, if no established market in the Ordinary Shares exists,
the fair value of an Ordinary  share as determined by the Board.  Generally,  an
option may not be exercised  unless at the date of exercise the  participant  is
then, and has been continuously  since the grant of the option, in the full-time
employ of the Company.  This rule, however, is subject to alteration in specific
cases at the discretion of the Board.

Other share options

At the Extraordinary  General Meeting held on September 2, 1998 the Shareholders
approved a new option  scheme and a  separate  Option  Agreement  with Mr Baker:
(a)The  Huntingdon  Life  Sciences  Group  Unapproved  Share Option  Scheme (the
Unapproved Share Option Scheme) , under which 8,500,000 Founder Options had been
granted but not  relinquished  or exercised as at December 31, 1998 at an option
price of 12.5p per Ordinary  Share.  The Options may be exercised from the third
anniversary  of the date of the grant  subject to the share price  reaching  the
following  pre-determined targets for a period of seven consecutive dealing days
at any time after January 1, 1999.

           Target price per share       Proportion of options exercisable
                  25p                               25%
                  50p                               50%
                  75p                               75%
                 100p                              100%


<PAGE>


Options,  other than Founder Options, are available for grant under this Scheme
and are generally  exercisable  between the third and tenth anniversary  of the
date of grant subject to the attainment of performance related conditions.

All Options lapse on the tenth anniversary of the date of the option grant.

(b) An Option Agreement under which Andrew  Baker was granted Options over
    5,000,000 Ordinary Shares of 5p in the Company, the principal terms of which
    are the same as those applicable to the Founder Options referred to above.


Any US  subsidiary  of the  Company,  which  received the services in respect of
which an option was granted,  will be entitled to a deduction in an amount equal
to the  compensation  taxable to the  optionee,  in computing  its U.S.  Federal
income tax.  Generally  this is in the  calendar  year in which the  optionee is
deemed to have received such compensation.



Under the terms of the various share option  arrangements the following  options
to purchase  Ordinary  Shares in the Company  have been  granted (net of expired
options) but not exercised as of April 16, 1999:

 (i)     The Unapproved Share Option Plan

Date of Grant          Number of shares    Option Price     Expiry Date
                          allocated
- --------------------- ------------------- ------------------ ----- ------------

December 18, 1995         189,550        (pound)0.77        December 17, 2002
November 21, 1996         140,000        (pound)0.95        November 20, 2003
November 21, 1996          60,000              $1.60        November 20, 2003
December 1, 1997          100,000        (pound)0.50        November 30, 2004
December 31, 1997       1,097,570       (pound)0.465        December 30, 2004
December 31, 1997         680,000              $0.77        December 30, 2004


(ii)     The Approved Management Share Option  Plan

Date of Grant          Number of shares    Option Price      Expiry Date
                          allocated
- ----------------------------------------- ------------------ ----- ------------

February 13, 1995          302,500        (pound)0.49        February 12, 2005
December 11, 1995          795,000        (pound)0.78        December 10, 2005
December 11, 1995          130,000              $1.19        December 10, 2005
December 18, 1995          171,450        (pound)0.77        December 17, 2005
November 21, 1996          565,000        (pound)0.95        November 20, 2006
December 31, 1997          580,000       (pound)0.465        December 30, 2007


<PAGE>


(iii)    The Unapproved Share Option  Scheme and Mr. Baker's Option Agreement

Date of Grant           Number of shares   Option Price      Expiry Date
                          allocated
- ------------------------------------------- ------------------ ----- ---------

September 2, 1998          5,000,000       (pound)0.125      September 1, 2008
December 3, 1998           7,000,000       (pound)0.125      December 2, 2008
December 31, 1998          1,000,000       (pound)0.125      December 30,2008
March 29, 1999             2,000,000      (pound)0.1925      March 28, 2009


In the  period  since  options  to  acquire  shares  have been  capable of being
exercised to April 16, 1999,  options for 3,798,856  shares have been  exercised
and the  shares  issued.  The total  number of  options  held by  Directors  and
Officers as a group as at April 16, 1999 is 11,100,000.

The  following  table shows the number of share  options held by Directors as at
April 16, 1999:

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
Date of Grant         Number Granted      Exercise Price     Date First Exercisable    Expiry Date
- -------------         --------------      --------------     ----------------------    -----------
<S>                   <C>                <C>                 <C>                       <C>
A H Baker
- ---------
September 2,1998       5,000,000          (pound)0.125        September 2, 2001         September 1,2008
F W Bonner
- ----------
December 31, 1998      500,000            (pound)0.125        December 31, 2001         December 30, 2008
December 1, 1997       100,000            (pound)0.50         December 1, 1999          November 30, 2004
B Cass
- ------
December 3, 1998       5,000,000          (pound)0.125        December 3, 2001          December  2, 2008
J T Griffiths
- -------------
March 29, 1999         500,000            (pound)0.1925       March 29, 2002            March 28, 2009

</TABLE>



ITEM 13.  INTEREST OF MANAGEMENT IN CERTAIN TRANSACTIONS

There have been no material transactions during the 3 years prior to the date of
this  report to which any  director or officer or 10%  shareholder  was a party.
There is no outstanding  indebtedness  to the Company by any director or officer
or 10% shareholder.


<PAGE>

                                     PART II

ITEM 14.  DESCRIPTION OF SECURITIES TO BE REGISTERED

Not applicable.


                                    PART III

ITEM 15.  DEFAULTS UPON SENIOR SECURITIES

None.


ITEM 16.  CHANGES IN SECURITIES AND CHANGES IN SECURITY FOR REGISTERED
          SECURITIES.

At an Extraordinary General Meeting on September 2, 1998 shareholders approved a
subscription  of  120,000,000  shares and a placing and open offer of 57,003,431
shares  at  12.5  pence  .  The  shares  not  taken  up by  existing  qualifying
shareholders   were  placed  by  Kleinwort   Benson   Securities   Limited  with
institutional  investors in the UK. These transactions raised  (pound)20.39M net
of expenses. The issue discount before expenses was 36 per cent as compared with
19.5 pence per share, being the London Stock Exchange middle market price at the
time the issue  price was  agreed.  However,  the issue  price  before  expenses
represented a 6 per cent discount to the price of the Company's ADR's on the New
York Stock Exchange at the time that the price was agreed. Dealings commenced in
these new Ordinary shares on 3 September, 1998 and the discount at that time was
11 per cent as compared with the then  prevailing  middle market price of 14p on
the London Stock Exchange.

On May 15, 1998, at the Annual General Meeting,  the directors were empowered by
Special  Resolution of the  Shareholders  to allot Ordinary  Shares  pursuant to
Section  95 of the  Companies  Act 1985 as if Section 89 (1) of that Act did not
apply.  As a result the  directors are  authorised  to issue shares,  within the
general authority granted,  other than pro-rata to existing  shareholders.  Such
power is limited to the allotment of Ordinary  Shares (a) in  connection  with a
rights issue in favour of Ordinary  shareholders of the Company (so allowing the
Company  to  make   alternative   arrangements   for  shareholders  in  overseas
jurisdictions  to whom shares cannot be offered without  compliance with onerous
securities  legislation) or (b) without  restriction for cash up to an aggregate
nominal amount of (pound)285,017  (equal to 5,700,340 Ordinary Shares of 5 pence
each).  This power expires on the conclusion of the next Annual General  Meeting
of the Company.

On September 2, 1998, at the Extraordinary  General Meeting,  the directors were
empowered by Special  Resolution of the  Shareholders  to allot Ordinary  Shares
pursuant  to Section 95 of the  Companies  Act 1985 as if Section 89 (1) of that
Act did not apply.  As a result the directors  were  authorised to issue shares,
within the authority granted, other than pro-rata to existing shareholders. Such
power is limited to the  allotment  of Ordinary  Shares in  connection  with the
Subscription, Placing and Open Offer and the Option Agreement up to an aggregate
nominal amount of  (pound)9,100,172  (equal to 182,003,431  Ordinary Shares of 5
pence  each).  This  power is in  addition  to the power  granted  at the Annual
General Meeting on May 15, 1998 and expires at the conclusion of the next Annual
General Meeting of the Company.



                                     PART IV

ITEM 17.  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

Not applicable.

ITEM 18.  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

See Item 19 for a list of financial statements filed under Item 18.


<PAGE>


ITEM 19.  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND EXHIBITS

(a)      Index to Financial Statements
                                                                         Page

         Report of Independent Auditors................................   F-1
         Consolidated Income Statements  ..............................   F-2
         Consolidated Balance Sheets ..................................   F-3
         Consolidated Statement of Changes in Shareholders' Equity.....   F-4
         Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows..........................   F-5
         Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements................   F-6

(b)      Exhibit No.       Description of Exhibit

         1.1     --        An agreement  dated August 7, 1998 between,  inter
                           alia, the Company, Huntingdon  Life Sciences Limited,
                           Huntingdon Life Sciences Inc. and National
                           Westminster Bank PLC replacing the facilities
                           agreement dated November 1, 1995 relating to a
                           revolving loan facility of(pound)24,500,000
         1.2     --        A bridging  facility  being made  available by
                           National  Westminster  Bank PLC in favour of the
                           Company and
                           Huntingdon Life Sciences Limited.
         1.3               -- An agreement between the Company,  Huntingdon Life
                           Sciences  Limited,  Huntingdon Life Sciences Inc. and
                           various  banks  replacing  the  third   intercreditor
                           agreement between the parties dated March 17,1998.
         1.4     --        Third Supplemental Deed dated August 7, 1998 between
                           the Company and National Westminster Bank PLC.
         1.5     --        Third Supplemental Deed dated **** between Huntingdon
                           Life Sciences Inc. and National Westminster Bank PLC.
         1.6     --        Third Supplemental Deed dated August 7, 1998 between
                           Huntingdon Life Sciences Ltd and National Westminster
                           Bank PLC.
         2.1     --        Deed of  variation  dated **** to the Service
                           Contract dated March 15, 1993 between the Company and
                           Mr C F Cliffe.
         2.2     --        Service Contract dated August 7, 1998 between
                           Huntingdon Life Sciences Ltd and Mr M Sandford.
         2.3     --        Service  Contract dated August 7, 1998 between
                           Huntingdon Life Sciences Ltd and Dr   C M Macdonald.
         2.4     --        Deed of  variation  dated  August 7, 1998 to the 
                           Contract dated March 20, 1995 as amended on
                           December  23, 1995 between the Company, Harford
                           Consultancy Services Limited and Mr R Pinnington.
         2.5     --        A letter of appointment dated August 7, 1998 between
                           the Company and Professor J Caldwell.
         2.6     --        A Management Services Agreement dated August 7, 1998
                           between the Company and Focused Healthcare Partners.
         2.7     --        A Deed of Undertaking between the Company and Andrew
                           Baker.
         2.8     --        Service Contract dated *** between the Company and
                           Mr B Cass.
         2.9     --        Service Contract dated *** between the Company and
                           Mr J Griffiths.
         2.10    --        Service Contract dated *** between the Company and
                           Dr F Bonner.
         3.1     --        An agreement between the Company, the Directors and
                           various investors dated August 10, 1998 under which
                           the investors agree to subscribe for, collectively,
                           120,000,000 New Shares.
         3.2     --        An agreement between the Company and Kleinwort Benson
                           Limited dated August 10, 1998, under which Kleinwort
                           Benson Limited agreed to  subscribe  or to procure
                           subscribers for those New Shares not taken up by the
                           Company's shareholders under the Open Offer, with
                           letter dated September 1, 1998 confirming certain
                           alterations.
         3.3     --        A Deed of Variation dated August 6, 1998 between
                           Ciba-Geigy plc, Huntingdon Life Sciences Limited and
                           the Company supplemental to an agreement dated
                           March 14, 1997.




                                    SIGNATURE


Pursuant to the  requirements  of Section 12 of the  Securities  Exchange Act of
1934, the Registrant  certifies that it meets all of the requirements for filing
on Form 20-F and has duly caused  this Annual  Report to be signed on its behalf
by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorised.



                                         HUNTINGDON LIFE SCIENCES GROUP plc

                                                    (Registrant)





By:     /s/ Brian Cass


Name:    Brian Cass

Title:   Managing Director/Chief Operating Officer

Date:    April 30, 1999



<PAGE>




REPORT OF INDEPENDENT AUDITORS


To the Board of Huntingdon Life Sciences Group plc


We have audited the accompanying  consolidated balance sheets of Huntingdon Life
Sciences  Group plc and  subsidiaries  as of December  31, 1998 and December 31,
1997 and the related consolidated statements of income, changes in shareholders'
equity and cash flows for the years  ended  December  31,  1998,  1997 and 1996.
These  financial  statements  and  the  financial  statements  schedule  are the
responsibility of the Company's management.  Our responsibility is to express an
opinion on these financial statements and schedule based on our audits.


We conducted our audits in accordance  with United  Kingdom  auditing  standards
which do not differ in any  significant  respect  from United  States  generally
accepted  auditing  standards.  Those standards require that we plan and perform
the audit to obtain reasonable  assurance about whether the financial statements
are free of material misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a test basis,
evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements.  An
audit also includes  assessing the accounting  principles  used and  significant
estimates  made by  management,  as well as  evaluating  the  overall  financial
statement  presentation.  We believe that our audits provide a reasonable  basis
for our opinion.


In our opinion,  the financial  statements  referred to above present fairly, in
all material  respects,  the consolidated  financial position of Huntingdon Life
Sciences  Group plc and  subsidiaries  as of December  31, 1998 and 1997 and the
consolidated  results  of their  operations  and their  cash flows for the years
ended December 31, 1998,  1997 and 1996 in conformity  with  generally  accepted
accounting principles.





Arthur Andersen



Chartered Accountants

Cambridge

England

April 30, 1999





<PAGE>

<TABLE>

 Consolidated Income Statements
<CAPTION>
                                                       Year Ended December, 31
                                                  1996             1997               1998
                                           (pound)'000      (pound)'000        (pound)'000
<S>                                      <C>              <C>                  <C>
Revenues                                        73,564           63,689             52,616
Cost of sales                                   53,867           56,136             56,739
                                           ------------     ------------       ------------
Gross profit/(loss)                             19,697            7,553            (4,123)
Selling and administrative expenses              7,898            9,069              9,200
Exceptional loss                                     -            3,549             14,911
                                           ------------     ------------       ------------
Operating profit/(loss)                         11,799          (5,065)           (28,234)
Interest income                                    400              546                375
Interest expense                               (4,428)          (4,197)            (5,882)
Other income                                     2,319            1,001                321
                                           ------------     ------------       ------------
Income/(loss) before income taxes          -----------         (7,715 )          (33,420 )
                                                10,090
Income taxes                                   (2,219)            4,833              8,983
                                           ============     ============       ============
Net income/(loss)                                7,871          (2,882)          (24,437 )
                                           ============     ============       ============

Earnings/(loss) per share
 -basic                                   (pound)0.073      (pound)(0.026)     (pound)(0.138)
 -diluted                                 (pound)0.060                -                  -
                                                 (000)            (000)              (000)
Weighted average shares outstanding
 -basic                                        108,492          112,935            177,200
 -diluted                                      118,983                -                  -

<FN>
The accompanying notes are an integral part of these Consolidated Income Statements.
</FN>
</TABLE>

<PAGE>

<TABLE>
Consolidated Balance Sheets
<CAPTION>

                                                                       December, 31
                                                                      1997             1998
                                                               (pound)'000      (pound)'000
ASSETS
<S>                                                              <C>              <C>  
Current Assets:
Cash and cash equivalents                                              443           14,080
Accounts receivable net of allowance
for uncollectible amounts of(pound)111,000                           7,300            7,791
(1997 (pound)75,000)
Amounts recoverable on contracts                                     4,318            4,060
Inventories                                                          1,272            1,137
Prepaid expenses and other                                           3,461            1,441
Income taxes recoverable                                               435                -
Deferred  income taxes                                                 202              873
                                                               ------------     ------------
Total current assets                                                17,431           29,382
                                                               ------------     ------------
Property, Plant and Equipment:
Cost                                                               130,339          132,552
Less accumulated depreciation and amortisation                      46,621           57,136
                                                               ------------     ------------
                                                                    83,718           75,416
                                                               ------------     ------------
Goodwill
Cost                                                                 7,752            7,752
Less accumulated amortisation                                          410            7,752
                                                               ------------     ------------
                                                                     7,342                -
                                                               ------------     ------------
Investments                                                            154              154
Unamortised costs of raising long term debt                          1,015              882
Deferred income taxes                                                2,801            4,303
                                                               ============     ============
Total Assets                                                       112,461          110,137
                                                               ============     ============

LIABILITIES AND SHAREHOLDERS' EQUITY

Current Liabilities:
Trade payables, accrued expenses and
accrued payroll and benefits                                        10,957           11,826
Short term debt                                                     20,035            4,116
Fees invoiced in advance                                             7,847            8,340
                                                               ------------     ------------
Total current liabilities                                           38,839           24,282
                                                               ------------     ------------
Long term debt                                                      33,691           54,688
                                                               ------------     ------------
Other long term liabilities                                          1,013            2,571
                                                               ------------     ------------
                                                               ------------     ------------
Deferred income taxes                                               21,556           15,285
                                                               ------------     ------------
Shareholders' Equity: 5p Ordinary Shares;
Authorised-at December 31, 1998 400,000,000
(1997, 140,000,000);
Issued and outstanding-at 31 December, 1998 291,010,294
(1997, 114,006,863)                                                  5,700           14,550
Share premium                                                       13,672           25,100
Retained earnings                                                  (2,010)         (26,339)
                                                               ------------     ------------
Total Shareholders' Equity                                          17,362           13,311
                                                               ------------     ------------
                                                               ============     ============
Total Liabilities and Shareholders' Equity                         112,461          110,137
                                                               ============     ============

<FN>

The accompanying notes are an integral part of these Consolidated Balance Sheets
</FN>
</TABLE>

<PAGE>
<TABLE>

Consolidated Statement of Changes in Shareholders' Equity
<CAPTION>

                                                 Ordinary        Share         Retained
                                                  Shares        Premium        Earnings        Total
                                                (pound)'000    (pound)'000    (pound)'000    (pound)'000
<S>                                                 <C>         <C>            <C>            <C>
Balance, December, 31, 1995                            5,421       32,845       (31,665)          6,601
Net income for year                                        -            -          7,871          7,871
Exercise of Share Options                                  8          106              -            114
Transfers                                                  -     (24,558)         24,558              -
                                               --------------  -----------    -----------    -----------
Balance, December, 31, 1996                            5,429        8,393            764         14,586
Net income for year                                        -            -        (2,882)        (2,882)
Exercise of Share Options                                  1            9              -             10
Issue of shares                                          270        5,378              -          5,648
Transfers                                                  -        (108)            108              -
                                               --------------  -----------    -----------    -----------
Balance, December, 31, 1997                            5,700       13,672        (2,010)         17,362
Net income for year                                        -            -       (24,437)       (24,437)
Issue of shares                                        8,850       11,536              -         20,386
Transfers                                                  -        (108)            108              -
                                               ==============  ===========    ===========    ===========
Balance, December, 31, 1998                           14,550       25,100       (26,339)         13,311
                                               ==============  ===========    ===========    ===========

<FN>

The  authorised  share capital of the Company as at December 31, 1995,  December
31, 1996 and  December  31, 1997 was  (pound)7,000,000,  comprising  140,000,000
ordinary  shares of 5p each.  This was  increased  in 1998 to  (pound)20,000,000
comprising 400,000,000 ordinary shares of 5p each.

The share premium account is not distributable.

The accompanying  notes are an integral part of this  Consolidated  Statement of
Changes in Shareholders' Equity.
</FN>
</TABLE>

<PAGE>

<TABLE>

Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows
<CAPTION>
                                                                Year Ended December, 31
                                                          1996           1997          1998
                                                        (pound)'000    (pound)'000   (pound)'000
                                                          -----          -----         -----
<S>                                                       <C>            <C>          <C> 
Operating Activities:
Net income/(loss)                                            7,871        (2,882)      (24,437)
Adjustments to reconcile net income to
net cash provided by
operating activities
Depreciation and amortisation                                5,370          6,126        17,991
Amortisation of loan costs                                     215            201           133
Deferred income taxes                                          445        (3,113)       (8,444)
Provision for losses on accounts receivable                   (80)              1            36
Profit on sale of property, plant and equipment              (225)           (83)             -
Changes in operating  assets and  liabilities
net of effects  from  purchase of
subsidiary companies during year:
(Increase)/decrease in accounts receivable
and prepaid expenses                                          (870)         4,739         2,186
Decrease in inventories                                        138             38           135
Increase/(decrease) in accounts payable
and accrued expenses                                         3,309        (2,982)           869
salaries and wages and income taxes
(Decrease)/increase in fees invoiced in advance              (175)        (1,468)           493
(Decrease)/increase in other liabilities                   (2,265)            808         1,558
Net cash provided by operating activities
                                                       ------------   ------------  ------------
Investing activities:                                       13,733          1,385       (9,480)
                                                       ------------   ------------  ------------
Purchase of subsidiaries net of cash acquired              (1,904)              -             -
Purchase of property, plant and equipment                  (7,639)       (14,501)       (2,419)
Proceeds from sale of property, plant and equipment            304            205             5
Purchase of investments                                       (56)              -             -
                                                       ------------   ------------  ------------
Net cash used in investing activities                      (9,295)       (14,296)       (2,414)
                                                       ------------   ------------  ------------
Financing activities:
Proceeds from issue of ordinary shares                         114          5,658        20,386
Proceeds from long term borrowings                               -          3,800         5,205
Repayments of long term borrowings                         (1,532)           (32)         (551)
Proceeds from short term borrowings                              -              -           747
                                                       ------------   ------------  ------------
Net cash used by financing activities                      (1,418)          9,426        25,787
                                                       ------------   ------------  ------------
Effect of exchange rate changes on cash
and cash equivalents                                       (2,529)            891         (256)
                                                       ------------   ------------  ------------
(Decrease)/increase in cash and cash equivalents(B)            491        (2,594)        13,637
Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of year(B)            2,546          3,037           443
                                                       ------------   ------------  ------------
Cash and cash equivalents at end of year(B)                  3,037            443        14,080
                                                       ------------   ------------  ------------

(A) Supplementary disclosures:
Interest received                                              377            421           335
Interest paid                                              (3,889)        (4,434)       (5,717)
Income taxes (paid)/received                                 (625)           (98)           974

<FN>

(B) Cash equivalents are deposits with a maturity of 3 months or less when purchased.
The accompanying notes are an integral part of these Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows.
</FN>
</TABLE>


<PAGE>

Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements

1. Basis of Financial Statements

These financial  statements are not the Group's primary financial statements and
do not constitute  statutory  accounts  within the meaning of Section 227 of the
Companies Act 1985 of Great Britain. Such statutory accounts for the years ended
December  31,  1996 and 1997 have been and for the year ended  December  31,1998
will be delivered  to the  Registrar  of  Companies  for England and Wales.  The
auditors have issued unqualified audit reports on these accounts.

These  financial  statements  are  prepared in  conformity  with the  accounting
principles  generally  accepted in the United States ("US GAAP").  These US GAAP
statements  are prepared  solely for the purposes of preparing the Annual Report
on Form 20-F.  They are presented in pounds sterling since the United Kingdom is
the country in which the Company is incorporated.

The Group is a  leading  Contract  Research  Organisation,  offering  world-wide
pre-clinical  and  non-clinical  testing  for  biological  safety  and  efficacy
assessment  which  is  necessary  for the  development  of  pharmaceuticals  and
chemicals.  The company  serves the  rapidly  evolving  requirements  to perform
safety  evaluations  on new  pharmaceutical  compounds  and  chemical  compounds
contained within the products that man uses, eats, and is otherwise  exposed to.
In addition it tests the effect of such  compounds on the  environment  and also
performs work on assessing the safety and efficacy of veterinary products.

2. Accounting policies

A summary of the principal accounting  policies,  all of which have been applied
consistently  throughout  the year ended  December  31,  1998 and the  preceding
periods presented is set out below:

Basis of consolidation
The consolidated  financial  statements  incorporate the accounts of the Company
and  each of its  subsidiaries  for the year  ended  December  31,  1998 and the
preceding  periods  presented  except as  described  in note 3. The  results  of
subsidiaries  acquired  or  disposed  of during any period are  included  in the
Consolidated Income Statement from , or to, the date on which control passed.

Goodwill arising on consolidation
Goodwill,  being  the  excess  of  the  purchase  consideration  for  subsidiary
companies acquired over the fair values ascribed to their tangible net assets at
the date of acquisition,  is amortized over its expected useful life which is 40
years. In subsequent  years,  goodwill  carried forward is assessed based on its
fair  value  and any  permanent  impairment  is  written-off  at the  time it is
identified.

Investments
In the Group's financial statements,  investments in associated undertakings are
accounted  for  using the  equity  method.  The  Consolidated  Income  Statement
includes  the Group's  share of the  undertaking's  profits or losses  while the
Group's share of the net assets of the associated  undertakings  is shown in the
Consolidated Balance Sheet.

Depreciation
The cost of depreciable assets is written off in equal monthly  instalments over
their expected useful lives as follows:



         Freehold buildings and facilities          15 - 50 years
         Plant and equipment                         5 - 15 years
         Vehicles                                         5 years
         Computer software                                5 years


<PAGE>


2.  Accounting policies continued

Taxation
The  current  charge for  income  taxes is  calculated  in  accordance  with the
relevant tax regulations applicable to each entity in the Group. Deferred income
taxes are recognised for the future tax  consequences  attributable to temporary
differences  between the financial statement carrying amounts of existing assets
and  liabilities  and their  respective  tax basis.  The effect on deferred  tax
assets and  liabilities  of a change in tax rates is recognised in income in the
period that includes the enactment  date.  Deferred tax assets are recognised in
full subject to a valuation allowance that reduces the amount recognised to that
which is more likely than not to be realised.

Inventories
Inventories  are valued at the lower of cost, on a FIFO basis, or net realisable
value after making due allowances for any obsolete items.

Revenue recognition
Revenues comprise the invoiced value of sales and services,  exclusive of VAT or
sales  taxes,  adjusted for fees  invoiced in advance and in arrears.  Where the
group  invoices  clients  over a contract  period,  amounts are  credited to the
Consolidated  Income  Statement  only as  earned.  Billings  in  advance of work
performed  are  recorded as fees  invoiced  in advance  and  included in current
liabilities, while billings in arrears of work performed are included in current
assets as amounts recoverable on contracts.

Profit  on  contracts  is  taken as the  work is  carried  out.  The  profit  is
calculated to reflect the proportion of the work performed, by recording revenue
and related costs as contract activity progresses. Revenue is calculated as that
proportion of total  contract  value which costs  incurred to date bear to total
expected costs for that contract. Full provision is made for losses on contracts
when they are first foreseen.

Foreign currencies
Assets,  liabilities,  revenues and costs denominated in foreign  currencies are
recorded  at the rates of  exchange  ruling  at the  dates of the  transactions;
monetary  assets and  liabilities  at the balance  sheet date are  translated at
period end rates of exchange. All exchange differences thus arising are reported
as part of the profit or loss for the period,  with the exception of differences
on foreign currency  borrowings,  to the extent that they are used to finance or
provide a hedge against foreign equity investments,  which are taken directly to
reserves  together with the exchange  difference  on the carrying  amount of the
related investment.

On  consolidation,  the assets and  liabilities  of  overseas  subsidiaries  are
translated  at the period end rates of exchange,  and the revenues and costs are
translated at monthly average rates of exchange.  Translation  adjustments where
material are included as a separate  component  of  stockholders'  equity in the
consolidated financial statements.

Leased assets
Assets held under the terms of finance  leases are  included  in tangible  fixed
assets and are depreciated in accordance  with the Group's  policy.  Obligations
for future lease payments,  less  attributable  finance charges are shown within
liabilities  and are analysed  between  amounts falling due within and after one
year.  Operating lease rentals are charged to the Consolidated  Income Statement
as incurred.

Pension costs
Contributions to defined  contribution plans are charged to income in the period
in which they accrue.  Current  service costs for defined benefit plans are also
accrued  in the  period to which  they  relate.  Prior  service  costs,  if any,
resulting  from  amendments to the plans are  recognised  and amortised over the
remaining period of service of such employees.



<PAGE>


Accounting policies continued

Costs of raising long-term debt
The costs of  raising  long term  finance  are  capitalised  as an asset and are
amortised,  using the effective interest method,  over the term of the loan. The
carrying  amount is increased  by the finance cost in respect of the  accounting
period  and  reduced  by  repayments  made in the  period.  Convertible  debt is
reported  as a  liability  unless  conversion  actually  occurred.  The costs of
raising  finance are  recognised in the Profit and Loss Account over the term of
the loans at a constant rate on the carrying amount.

Use of estimates
The preparation of financial  statements in conformity  with generally  accepted
accounting principles requires management to make estimates and assumptions that
affect  the  reported  amounts  of assets  and  liabilities  and  disclosure  of
contingent  assets and  liabilities at the date of the financial  statements and
the results of operations during the reporting periods. Although these estimates
are based upon management's best knowledge of current events and actions, actual
results could differ from those estimates.


New accounting standards
In April 1998,  the  Accounting  Standards  Executive  Committee of the American
Institute  of  Certified  Public  Accountants  issued the  Statement of Position
("SOP98-5"),  "Reporting on the Costs of Start-up  Activities",  which generally
requires that costs for start-up  activities  and  organisations  be expensed as
incurred.  SOP 98-5 is  effective  for  financial  statements  for fiscal  years
beginning  after  December  15,  1998 and  initial  adoption  is  required to be
reflected as a cumulative effect of accounting  change.  The Group believes that
its statements are already in compliance with SOP 98-5.

In June 1998, SFAS No. 133,  "Accounting for Derivative  Instruments and Hedging
Activities"  was  issued.  SFAS No. 133  establishes  accounting  and  reporting
standards  requiring  that  every  derivative   instrument   (including  certain
derivative  instruments  embedded in other contracts) be recorded on the balance
sheet  either as an asset or  liability  and be measured at its fair value.  The
statement  requires that changes in the derivative's fair value be recognised in
the current period unless specific hedge accounting  criteria are met.  Specific
accounting  for  qualifying  hedges  allows a  derivative's  gains and losses to
offset related  results on the hedged item in the income  statement and requires
that a company must formally document, designate and assess the effectiveness of
transactions that receive hedge accounting.

SFAS No. 133 will be adopted  after June 15, 1999. A company may also  implement
the statement as of the beginning of any fiscal quarter after issuance, however,
SFAS No. 1333 cannot be applied retroactively.  The Group has not yet determined
the  timing of or method of  adoption  of SFAS No.  133.  The Group does not use
deriviative  financial  instruments  and does not engage in significant  hedging
activities.  Accordingly,  the Group believes that the Statement will not have a
significant effect on its consolidated financial statements.


3. Accounting policy in respect of the Travers Morgan Group ("TM")

Joint  administrators  were appointed to TM, on December 15, 1994. Upon granting
of the  administration  order,  control  of the  realisation  of the  assets and
settlement  of  liabilities  passed  from  the  Company  to  the  Administrator.
Accordingly  the residual assets and liabilities of TM have not been included in
the  Consolidated  Balance  Sheet at December  31,  1996,  December 31, 1997 and
December 31, 1998. In addition,  as full provision was made for the losses of TM
at  September  30,  1994  the  results  of TM  have  not  been  included  in the
Consolidated  Profit and Loss Account for the 12 months ended December 31, 1996,
December 31, 1997 and December 31, 1998.


4. Segmental analysis

During the 12 months ended  December 31,  1996,  December  1997 and December 31,
1998 the Group operated from within two geographical markets, the United Kingdom
and the  United  States.  The Group  has had one  continuing  activity,  Contact
Research,  throughout this period. All disclosure therefore refers to continuing
activities.

                                  1996             1997               1998
                              (pound)000's     (pound)000's      (pound)000's
Revenues from customers
Europe                          37,877             29,603             20,843
United States                   16,573             16,546             15,236
Far East                        19,114             17,540             16,537
                           ------------      -------------      -------------
                                73,564             63,689             52,616
                           ------------      -------------      -------------


Geographical segment information is as follows:
                                      US               UK            Total
                                    (pound)000's   (pound)000's   (pound)000's
1998 Revenues                         8,019           44,597          52,616
     Operating loss                 (2,636)         (25,598)        (28,234)
     Indentifiable assets (A)        11,325           83,696          95,021
     Depreciation & amortisation        865           17,106          17,991
     Capital expenditure                705            1,714           2,419

1997 Revenues                         9,189           54,500          63,689
     Operating loss                 (1,100)          (3,965)         (5,065)
     Indentifiable assets (A)         8,335          102,514         110,849
     Depreciation & amortization        688            5,438           6,126
     Capital expenditure              1,850           12,651          14,501

1996 Revenues                         9,922           63,642          73,564
     Operating profit/(loss)          (338)           12,137          11,799
     Indentifiable assets (A)         7,389           97,138         104,527
     Depreciation & amortization        517            4,853           5,370
     Capital expenditure              1,364            6,275           7,639

(A)  Indentifiable  assets exclude cash and cash  equivalents,  investments and
unamortised costs of raising long term debt as follows.
                                        1996             1997          1998
                                    (pound)000's    (pound)000's   (pound)000's
   Identifiable assets                104,527          110,849        95,021
   Cash and cash equivalents            3,037              443        14,080
   Investments                            130              154           154
   Unamortised costs of debt            1,230            1,015           882
                                  ============     ============      ==========
   Total assets                       108,924          112,461       110,137
                                  ============     ============      ==========


<PAGE>

<TABLE>

5. Exceptional loss
<CAPTION>

                                                       1996              1997               1998
                                                (pound)'000       (pound)'000        (pound)'000
<S>                                                  <C>             <C>               <C>  
Restructuring costs                                       -                 -            (3,682)
Recovery of bad debt (included in other income)           -             2,100                  -
Costs of responding to allegations                        -           (3,549)                  -
Goodwill written off                                      -                 -            (7,342)
Write down of carrying value of Wilmslow                  -                 -            (2,887)
                                                ------------      ------------      -------------
                                                          -           (1,449)           (14,911)
                                                ------------      ------------      -------------

</TABLE>

During  the year the  Group's  UK site at  Wilmslow  has been  closed and assets
written down to net  realisable  value.  Redundancy  and related costs have been
classified as restructuring costs.

In addition  in December  1998 the Group  announced a cost  reduction  programme
designed to rationalise  capabilities  in the UK and align staff  resources with
current revenues.  The programme which commenced in January 1999 anticipates the
reduction  of  approximately  150  positions.  Associated  costs are included in
restructuring costs.

Following the decline in revenues and the renaming and successful integration of
the  businesses  acquired in 1995 into the  Huntingdon  group,  the  unamortised
balance of the goodwill acquired at that time,  (pound)7,342,000,  has no longer
any intrinsic value and has therefore been written off.

Finally a review of asset  values  has led to the  accelerated  depreciation  of
certain assets in the UK. These costs are included in restructuring costs.

Amortisation of goodwill has no tax effect and the depreciation  included within
exceptional  items of  (pound)4,240,000  has reduced deferred tax liabilities by
(pound)1,314,000.  The other costs incurred will be available for offset against
future trading profits.

In 1997, Group operations in Huntingdon, UK and near Princeton, USA were alleged
to have  tolerated  malpractice in its conduct of studies and in the welfare and
care of animals for use in research.  Further,  in the USA the Group  settled an
employment   matter.  The  exceptional  loss  for  1997  included  study  costs,
management time, legal and professional fees

The exceptional gain in 1997 represented the expected dividend,  net of costs to
be incurred,  from the  administration of the Travers Morgan Group of companies.
In 1994 these  companies were placed in  administration  and the Group wrote off
its investment,  providing  (pound)11.6  million against the amounts  receivable
from Travers Morgan Limited. Following discussions with the joint administrators
the Group  believed that the provision  was excessive and  accordingly  released
(pound)2.1 million.



<PAGE>



6. Interest payable and similar charges


                                           1996         1997            1998
                                       (pound)000's  (pound)000's  (pound)000's
Bank overdraft interest                     275          283             184
Interest on loans
  - repayable within 5 years              1,655        1,500           2,028
Bond interest                             2,382        2,243           2,265
Amortisation of Bonds issue costs           108          108             108
Cost of raising finance                       -            -           1,208
Finance charges on capitalised leases         6           15              11
Other                                         2           48               -
Exchange loss                                 -            -              78
                                       ---------   ----------     -----------
                                          4,428        4,197           5,882
                                       ---------   ----------     -----------


<TABLE>

7. Other income/(expense)
<CAPTION>

                                                           1996           1997              1998
                                                         (pound)000's   (pound)000's    (pound)000's
<S>                                                     <C>           <C>                  <C> 

Exceptional bad debt recovery (see note 5)                    -          2,100                 -
Exchange gain/(loss) on translation of Capital Bond       2,319        (1,099)               321
                                                      ----------      ---------      ------------
                                                          2,319          1,001               321
                                                      ----------      ---------      ------------
</TABLE>



8. Income taxes
<TABLE>

The credit/(charge) for the year comprises
<CAPTION>

                                                1996             1997           1998
                                              12 months        12 months       12 months
                                          (pound)'000        (pound)'000     (pound)'000
<S>                                             <C>             <C>            <C> 

UK tax calculated at 31% (1996 : 33%)            (1,774)         1,843            539
Deferred taxation                                  (445)         2,990          8,444
                                             ------------      --------      ---------
                                                 (2,219)         4,833          8,983
                                             ------------      --------      ---------
</TABLE>


<PAGE>


8. Income taxes (continued)

A  reconciliation  between the UK corporation tax rate and the effective rate of
income tax expense to income/(loss)  before income taxes for the 12 months ended
December 31, 1998, December 31, 1997 and December 31, 1996 is shown below.

                                            % of Income before Income Taxes
                                             1996        1997         1998
                                               %           %            %
UK statutory rate                              33          31           31
Effect of non taxation of goodwill and
   exceptional bad debt recovery               (4)           8          (7)
Increase/(decrease) in taxes arising
   from effect of foreign earnings             (1)           4           1
Exchange loss/ gain not taxable                (8)         (4)           -
Effect of reduction in UK tax rate on
   deferred tax                                  -          18           -
Prior year adjustments                           -           7           2
Permanent differences                            2         (1)           -
                                           -------     -------       -----
Effective tax rate                             22          63          27
                                           -------     -------       -----

The analysis of the deferred taxation assets and liabilities is as follows:
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                           1996                1997               1998
                                       (pound)'000          (pound)'000         (pound)'000
<S>                                     <C>                 <C>                 <C>
Accelerated tax depreciation:
  UK                                       22,418              22,265             19,875
Operating loss carried forward:
  UK                                        (235)             (1,795)            (6,126)
  US Federal                                (242)             (1,462)            (2,584)
  US State                                   (43)               (258)              (456)
Other temporary differences
  UK                                        (232)               (197)              (600)

                                      ------------       -------------       ------------
                                           21,666              18,553             10,109
                                      ------------       -------------       ------------
Analysed as
Long term liabilities                      22,428              21,556             15,285
Short term liabilities                         13                   -                  -
Short term assets                           (245)               (202)              (873)
Long term assets                            (530)             (2,801)            (4,303)
                                      ------------       -------------       ------------
                                           21,666              18,553             10,109
                                      ------------       -------------       ------------
</TABLE>


No account has been taken in the above for contingent deferred tax assets on the
Group's  properties  where the tax base costs of those assets exceeds their book
value as there is no intention to dispose of any of the Group's  properties.  In
addition no account is taken of the benefits of capital losses incurred in prior
years as the Group would be  required to make a capital  gain before such losses
could be utilised.

9. Dividends

No dividends were paid or proposed in the 12 months ended December 31, 1998, the
12 months ended December 31,1997 and the 12 months ended December 31, 1996.


10. (Loss) / earnings per share

(Loss)/earnings   per   share   are   based   on  the   loss  for  the  year  of
(pound)24,437,000  (1997: loss (pound)2,882,000,  1996:profit  (pound)7,871,000)
and a  weighted  average  of  177,199,772  (1997:112,935,450,  1996:108,492,218)
Ordinary Shares issued during each period.

The potential dilution, which could arise from outstanding share options and the
Bonds  in  1997  and  1998,  is  not  disclosed  as  any  adjustments  would  be
anti-dilutive.  In 1996 the diluted EPS was  (pound)0.060  and was calculated as
follows:
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                  (pound)'000                                        '000
<S>                                <C>           <C>                              <C> 
Earnings as stated                  7,871         Shares in issue at
Interest and exchange effects          63         start of period                  108,411
of Bonds                                          Issues in year                        81
                                                                                 ----------
Taxation on interest                (787)         Basic EPS shares in issue        108,492
                                ----------
Adjusted earnings                   7,151         Effect of Bonds                    9,586
                                ----------
                                                  Effect of Options                    905
                                                                                 ----------
                                                  Diluted EPS shares in issue      118,983
                                                                                 ----------
</TABLE>
                                                                          

11.  Commitment to pension funds

The Company  operates the  Huntingdon  Life Sciences  Pension and Life Assurance
Scheme (the Huntingdon Scheme) a funded pension scheme providing benefits, based
on final  pensionable  salary,  for Group employees in the UK. The assets of the
Huntingdon  Scheme are held in an  independent  trust and  contributions  to the
Huntingdon  Scheme are  determined  by a qualified  actuary based on a triennial
valuation.  The most recent  valuation  was at January 1, 1997 using the Defined
Accrued Benefit Funding Method.  The assumptions which have the most significant
effect on the results of the valuation are those  relating to the rate of return
on  investments  and the rates of increases in salaries  and  pensions.  For the
purposes of the  valuation it was assumed that the  investment  returns would be
9.0% per annum,  that salary  increases  would  average  6.5% per annum and that
present  and future  pensions  would  increase  at an average of 4.5% per annum.
Appropriate  assumptions,  consequent  upon a decision  to close the  Huntingdon
Scheme to new entrants from April 5, 1997,  were also made.  The market value of
the Huntingdon Scheme's assets as at January 1, 1997 was (pound)40,500,000;  the
actuarial value of which represented 120.5% of the projected  liabilities of the
Huntingdon  Scheme.  The surplus is being  applied to abate the funding over the
period  to  the  next  actuarial   valuation.   The  Company   elected  to  stop
contributions  for the period October 1, 1997 through September 30, 1998 and the
Trustees reduced the employees  contribution to 0% for this period.  The average
Company  contribution  for the period from  October 1, 1998 to December 31, 1998
was 10.5% of pensionable  salaries and the contribution of qualifying  employees
was 4%.

As noted  below,  the Group  operates a number of defined  contribution  pension
plans covering employees in the UK, US and one Director.  The pension charge for
the year ended  December  31,  1998 in respect of such Plans was  (pound)278,000
(1997: (pound)229,000) and has been charged to the profit and loss account.

On April 6,1997 the Company  established a defined  contribution  Group Personal
Pension Plan for Group  employees  in the UK.  Company  contributions  match the
minimum  contribution of employees at 5% of basic salary. A defined contribution
scheme is available for  employees in the US.  Company  contributions  match the
contributions  of  employees  up to a maximum of 3% of basic salary at a rate of
50% of the employee contributions.



<PAGE>


11. Commitment to pension funds (continued)

The  following  table sets forth the funded status in respect of the HLS scheme.
Amounts are as determined by the actuaries to the plans.
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                1996               1997               1998
                                                         (pound)'000        (pound)'000        (pound)'000
<S>                                                       <C>                 <C>                <C>
Projected benefit obligation ("PBO")                        (40,362)           (59,303)           (59,747)
Plan assets at market value                                   43,147             55,085             59,500

                                                         ------------       ------------      -------------
Plan assets (less than)/in excess of PBO                       2,785            (4,218)              (247)

Unrecognised net gain/(loss) from past experience            (1,480)              5,176            (1,081)
Unrecognised prior service cost                                  270                210                150
Unrecognised net liability/(asset) at transition             (1,185)            (1,027)              (869)
Adjustment to recognise minimum liability                          -              (461)                  -
                                                         ------------       ------------      -------------
(Unfunded accrued pension cost)/prepaid pension cost             390              (320)            (2,047)
                                                         ------------       ------------      -------------

Change in plan assets
Fair value of assets at beginning of year                                        43,147             55,085
Actual return on plan assets                                                      6,929              5,432
Employer contributions                                                            1,609                297
Member contributions                                                                400                106
Benefit payments                                                                  3,000            (1,420)
                                                                            ------------      -------------
Fair value of assets at end of year                                              55,085             59,500
                                                                            ------------      -------------

Change in benefits obligation
Projected benefit obligation at beginning of year                                40,362             59,303
Service cost                                                                      2,469              3,135
Interest cost                                                                     3,229              4,151
Actuarial gains/(losses)                                                          9,843            (5,528)
Member contributions                                                                400                106
Benefit payments                                                                  3,000            (1,420)
                                                                            ------------      -------------
Projected benefit obligation at end of year                                      59,303             59,747
                                                                            ------------      -------------

Net periodic cost included the following:                   1996               1997               1998
                                                            (pound)'000        (pound)'000       (pound)'000
Service cost (excluding employee contributions)                1,636              2,469              3,135
Interest cost on PBO                                           2,770              3,229              4,151
Actual return on plan assets                                 (3,545)            (6,929)            (5,432)
Asset gain/(loss)                                                292              3,187                729
Amortisation of prior service cost                                60                 60                 60
Amortisation of transition asset                               (158)              (158)              (158)
                                                         -------------      ------------       ------------
Net periodic pension expense                                    1,055             1,858              2,485
                                                         -------------      ------------       ------------
The major assumptions used in calculating 
   the pension expense were:
                                                                  1996               1997               1998
Discount rate                                                        8.00%              7.00%              6.25%
Rate of increase of future compensation                              6.50%              6.00%              4.75%
Long-term rate of return on plan assets                              8.50%              8.50%              7.50%
<FN>

The Net  Asset  at  Transition,  Prior  Service  Cost and Net  Gain  subject  to
amortisation  have been  amortised  on a straight  line basis over periods of 15
years, 10 years and 10 years respectively.
</FN>
</TABLE>

12.  Tangible fixed assets
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                          Assets in             Plant,
                                          Freehold      the course of        equipment
                                          property      construction       and vehicles           Total
                                       (pound)'000      (pound)'000       (pound)'000       (pound)'000
<S>                                       <C>             <C>                 <C>             <C> 
Cost
At December 31, 1995                        59,250            6,444            44,544           110,238
Exchange adjustments                         (234)                -             (174)             (408)
Additions                                    4,944          (2,601)             5,296             7,639
Reclassifications                              277                -               399               676
Disposals                                    (644)                -           (1,421)           (2,065)
                                      -------------     ------------      ------------      ------------

At December 31, 1996                        63,593            3,843            48,644           116,080
Exchange adjustments                            88               32                85               205
Additions                                    3,707            (249)            11,043            14,501
Disposals                                    (213)                -             (234)             (447)
                                      -------------     ------------      ------------      ------------

At December 31, 1997                        67,175            3,626            59,538           130,339
Exchange adjustments                          (26)             (12)              (48)              (86)
Additions                                    1,206          (1,039)             2,252             2,419
Disposals                                        -                -             (120)             (120)
                                      -------------     ------------      ------------      ------------
At December 31, 1998                        68,355            2,575            61,622           132,552
                                      -------------     ------------      ------------      ------------

Depreciation
At December 31, 1995                        11,892                -            25,242            37,134
Exchange adjustments                           (1)                -               (6)               (7)
Charge for year                              1,394                -             3,782             5,176
Reclassifications                            2,099                -           (1,423)               676
Disposals                                    (644)                -           (1,342)           (1,986)
                                      -------------     ------------      ------------      ------------

At December 31, 1996                        14,740                -            26,253            40,993
Exchange adjustments                             5                -                16                21
Charge for the year                          1,497                -             4,435             5,932
Disposals                                     (94)                -             (231)             (325)
                                      -------------     ------------      ------------      ------------

At December 31, 1997                        16,148                -            30,473            46,621
Exchange adjustments                             -                -              (19)              (19)
Charge for the year                          3,042                -             7,607            10,649
Disposals                                        -                -             (115)             (115)
                                      -------------     ------------      ------------      ------------
At December 31, 1998                        19,190                -            37,946            57,136
                                      -------------     ------------      ------------      ------------

Net book value:
At 31 December, 1996                        48,853            3,843            22,391            75,087
At 31 December, 1997                        51,027            3,626            29,065            83,718
At 31 December, 1998                        49,165            2,575            23,676            75,416

</TABLE>

<PAGE>


12.  Tangible fixed assets continued

The net book value of assets held under finance leases and included above is as
follows:
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                         Cost      Depreciation    Net book
                                                                     value
                                    (pound)'000    (pound)'000    (pound)'000
<S>                                     <C>           <C>            <C>  

At December 31, 1996                     120            24             96
At December 31, 1997                     120            64             56
At December 31, 1998                     325           134            191
</TABLE>

13.  Goodwill
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                1997                 1998
                                         (pound)'000          (pound)'000
<S>                                           <C>                 <C>   
Cost:                                          7,752                7,752
                                               -----                -----
Accumulated amortisation
Balance at beginning of period                  216                   410
Charge in year                                  194                 7,342
Balance at end of period                        410                 7,752
                                                ---                 -----

14.  Inventories

                                               1997                1998
                                        (pound)'000         (pound)'000
Materials and Supplies                        1,272               1,137
                                              -----               -----
</TABLE>



15.   Debt

                                               1997                       1998
                                        (pound)'000                (pound)'000
Bank overdrafts and loans falling
   due within one year:
Bank loans                                   19,500                        747
Non bank loans                                  500                      3,300
Finance leases                                   35                         69
                                     ---------------            ---------------
                                             20,035                      4,116
                                     ---------------            ---------------
Loans - amounts falling due after
   more than one year:
Bank loans                                        -                     24,500
Non bank loans                                3,300                          -
Finance leases                                   18                        136
Convertible Capital Bonds                    30,373                     30,052
                                     ---------------            ---------------
                                             33,691                     54,688
                                     ---------------            ---------------


<PAGE>


15 Debt (continued)

The bank loans are  secured by  guarantees  from the  Company,  Huntingdon  Life
Sciences Ltd., and Huntingdon Life Sciences Inc., together with charges over the
assets of those  Companies.  The  non-bank  loan is secured by charges  over the
assets of the Wilmslow Research Centre, acquired in March 1997.

Loans  repayable  after  one  year,  excluding  the Bonds  (see  below)  are all
denominated in Sterling and represent the following:
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>

                                                                                              1997                 1998
                                                                                       (pound)'000          (pound)'000
<S>                                                                                        <C>                  <C> 
Outstanding element of the consideration for the purchase of Wilmslow
 Research Centre, repayable on sale of the site and bears no interest.                       3,800                3,300

Bank loan repayable on August 31, 2000.                                                          -               24,500
The interest rate is "LIBOR" plus 1.75 per cent per annum in respect of
 drawings  up to  (pound)19,500,000  and  LIBOR  plus 1 per cent in  respect of
drawings over (pound)19,500,000.The interest rate payable at December 31, 1998
 is 8.422 per cent on (pound)19,500,000 and 7.672 per cent on (pound)5,000,000
                                                                                  -----------------    -----------------
                                                                                             3,800               27,800
Repayable within one year                                                                    (500)              (3,300)
                                                                                  =================    =================
Long term debt                                                                               3,300               24,500
                                                                                  =================    =================

</TABLE>

The above loans and the Group's long term obligations under finance leases
are repayable as follows:

                                  Obligation
                                    under
                Loans            Finance leases           Total
                (pound)'000          (pound)'000          (pound)'000
2000                 24,500                   40               24,540
2001                      -                   40                   40
2002                      -                   40                   40
2003                      -                   16                   16
           =================    =================    =================
                     24,500                  136               24,636
           =================    =================    =================


On August 12, 1991, an issue of US  $50,000,000  7 1/2%  Convertible  Capital
Bonds, 2006, ("the Bonds"),  was made by a subsidiary company,  HIH Capital Ltd.
The  Bonds  are  guaranteed  on a  subordinated  basis by the  Company,  and are
convertible  by the holders  into  Redeemable  Preference  Shares of HIH Capital
Ltd., which in turn are immediately  exchangeable for Ordinary Shares of 5 pence
each in the Company.  The conversion rate, which is based upon the paid-up value
of  the  Redeemable   Preference   Shares  and  a  fixed  rate  of  exchange  of
(pound)1.00=US  $1.6825, is 242.3 pence per Ordinary Share (1997: 310 pence) and
is subject to adjustment in certain  circumstances.  At this conversion rate the
number of Ordinary  Shares to be issued on conversion  and exchange of each unit
of US $1,000  comprised in a Bond would be 245 (1997:  191). The proceeds of the
Bonds issue of US $47,300,000 were passed to the Company by HIH Capital Ltd., in
consideration  for the issue of US  $50,000,000  Debenture,  on terms similar to
those  of the  Bonds.  The  (pound)1,590,000  costs of  issuing  the  Bonds  are
amortised over the life of the Bonds and together with the interest  payable are
charged  to the  Consolidated  Income  Statement  using the  effective  interest
method.



<PAGE>


15 Debt (continued)

Fair value of financial instruments

Cash and cash  equivalents  are held on short term deposit at commercial  rates.
Long term loans are offered to the Company at fair rates of interest for similar
debt.  Accordingly  the  carrying  values  approximate  to the fair  value.  The
Convertible  Capital Bond is however a negotiable  instrument and the fair value
is the quoted market price. The estimated fair value of the Bond is as follows:

                                             1997              1998
                                       (pound)'000       (pound)'000
           Carrying Amount                  30,373            30,052
           Fair value                       23,691            24,793


16.  Share capital

At an Extraordinary General Meeting on September 2, 1998 shareholders approved a
subscription of 120,000,000 and a placing and open offer of 57,003,431 shares at
12.5 pence . The shares not taken up by existing  qualifying  shareholders  were
placed by Kleinwort Benson Securities  Limited with  institutional  investors in
the UK.. These  transactions  raised  (pound)20.39M  net of expenses.  The issue
discount  before expenses was 36 per cent as compared with 19.5 pence per share,
being the London Stock Exchange  middle market price at the time the issue price
was agreed.  However,  the issue price net of expenses  represented a 6 per cent
discount to the price of the Company's  ADR's on the New York Stock  Exchange at
the time that the price was agreed.  Dealings  commenced  in these new  Ordinary
shares  on 3  September,  1998 and the  discount  at that time was 4 per cent as
compared  with the then  prevailing  middle  market  price on the  London  Stock
Exchange.

17.  Share option plans

A description of the Company's  Share option plans is given in Item 12 - Options
to purchase Securities from the Registrant, of this report 20-F. Under the terms
of the plans the  following  Options to  purchase  Ordinary  Shares of 5p in the
Company have been granted but not  relinquished  or exercised as at December 31,
1998.

 Date of grant                               Number of shares    Option price
                                              Outstanding

UNAPPROVED  SHARE OPTION PLAN
 December 18, 1995                                  189,550       (pound)0.77
 November 21,1996                                   140,000       (pound)0.95
 November 21,1996                                    60,000             $1.60
 December 1, 1997                                   100,000       (pound)0.50
 December 31, 1997                                1,097,570      (pound)0.465
 December 31, 1997                                  685,000             $0.77
APPROVED MANAGEMENT SHARE OPTION PLAN
 February 13, 1995                                  307,500       (pound)0.49
 December 11, 1995                                  810,000       (pound)0.78
 December 11, 1995                                  130,000             $1.19
 December 18, 1995                                  171,450       (pound)0.77
 November 21,1996                                   575,000       (pound)0.95
 December 31, 1997                                  590,000      (pound)0.465



<PAGE>


17. Share option plans (continued)

Other share options

At the Extraordinary General Meeting held on September 2, 1998 the Shareholders
approved a  new option scheme and a separate Option Agreement with Mr Baker:

(a) The Huntingdon  Life Sciences Group  Unapproved  Share Option Scheme,  under
which  8,500,000  Founder  Options  had been  granted  but not  relinquished  or
exercised  as at  December  31,  1998 at an option  price of 12.5p per  Ordinary
Share.  The Options may be exercised  from the third  anniversary of the date of
the grant  subject to the share  price  reaching  the  following  pre-determined
targets for a period of seven consecutive dealing days at any time after January
1, 1999.

      Target price per share       Proportion of options exercisable
                25p                               25%
                50p                               50%
                75p                               75%
               100p                              100%

Options lapse on the tenth anniversary.

(b) An Option  Agreement  under  which  Andrew  Baker was granted  Options  over
    5,000,000 Ordinary Shares of 5p in the Company, the principal terms of which
    are the same as those applicable to the Founder Options referred to above.

The following  table sets forth certain  information  relative to the changes to
options outstanding in the periods presented:

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>

                                                                                                       Option Price
                                                                                                ----------------------------
                                            Share Option           Approved            Other        Dollars        Sterling
                                                    Plan               Plan          Options      per Share       per Share

<S>                                          <C>               <C>               <C>           <C>             <C>
Outstanding at January 1, 1996                   723,300          4,549,025                -         1.15 -     0.49 - 3.57
                                                                                                       1.19
Granted                                        1,525,000          1,015,000                -    1.46 - 1.60     0.72 - 0.95
Options exercised                                      -          (163,250)                -           1.15     0.49 - 0.78
Rescinded                                              -        (1,002,000)                -           1.19     0.49 - 3.57

                                         ----------------   ----------------   --------------   ------------    ------------
Outstanding at December 31, 1996               2,248,300          4,398,775                -         1.15 -     0.49 - 0.95
                                                                                                       1.60
Granted                                        3,050,020            650,000                -           0.77           0.465
                                                                                                                 -0.49 3.57

Options exercised                               (12,500)                  -                -              -            0.77
Rescinded                                    (1,808,750)        (1,407,075)                -         1.19 -      0.49 -0.95
                                                                                                       1.60

                                         ----------------   ----------------   --------------   ------------    ------------
Outstanding at December 31, 1997               3,477,070          3,641,700                -         0.77 -     0.465 -0.95
                                                                                                       1.60
Granted                                                -                  -       13,500,000              -           0.125
Rescinded                                    (1,204,950)        (1,057,750)                -         0.77 -     0.465 -0.95
                                                                                                       1.60

                                         ----------------
                                         ----------------   ----------------   --------------   ------------    ------------
                                               2,272,120          2,583,950       13,500,000      0.77-1.60      0.125-0.95
                                         ----------------   ----------------   --------------   ------------    ------------

</TABLE>


<PAGE>


17. Share option plans (continued)

A summary  of the status of the  Company's  option  plans for the years  ended
December  31, 1996,  December 31, 1997 and December 31, 1998 and changes during
the years then ended is presented in the table and narrative below:
<TABLE>

                                   Years ended
<CAPTION>

                                       December 31, 1996         December 31, 1997         December 31, 1998
                                    --------------------         -----------------         -----------------

                                       Shares    Wtd Avg.       Shares    Wtd Avg.        Shares     Wtd Avg.
                                                 Ex Price                  Ex Price                  Ex Price
                                       (000)                     (000)                     (000)
                                                                                         ---------- ------------

<S>                                      <C>   <C>                <C>    <C>               <C>   <C>
Outstanding at start of period            5,272(pound)0.71         6,647 (pound) 0.80        7,119  (pound)0.60
Granted                                   2,540(pound)1.17         3,700 (pound) 0.47       13,500  (pound)0.13
Exercised                                   163(pound)0.70            12 (pound) 0.77             -            -
Forfeited                                     -          -             -           -             -            -
Expired                                       -          -             -           -             -            -
Cancelled                                 1,002(pound)1.28         3,216 (pound) 0.86       (2,263)  (pound)0.53
                                     ----------- ----------    ---------- -----------    ---------- ------------
Outstanding at end of period              6,647(pound)0.80         7,119 (pound) 0.60        18,356         0.26

                                     ----------- ----------    ---------- -----------    ---------- ------------

Exercisable at end of year                    -                        -                         -
Weighted average fair value of            (pound)0.94              (pound)0.30               (pound)0.08
options granted

</TABLE>

The 18,356,070  options  outstanding at December 31, 1998 have an exercise price
between (pound)0.125 and (pound)0.95,  with a weighted average exercise price of
(pound)0.26  and a weighted  average  remaining  contractual  life of 9.3 years.
1,437,050 of these options are  exercisable.  The 13,500,000  options granted in
1998 have an exercise price of  (pound)0.125  and a weighted  average  remaining
contractual life of 9.85 years.

The fair value of each option  grant is estimated on the date of grant using the
Black-Scholes   option   pricing  model  with  the  following   weighted-average
assumptions used for the option grants in 1997 and 1998 respectively:  risk-free
interest  rates of 6.27 and  4.94  percent;  expected  dividend  yields  of 0.00
percent;  expected  life of 7.0 years for the Option  Plan or 10.0 years for the
Management Plan; expected volatility of 54.7 and 57.4 percent.

The Company accounts for share options under APB Opinion No. 25, under which no
compensation  cost has been recognised.  Had compensation cost for stock options
awarded under the plans been determined  consistent with FASB Statement No. 123,
the  Company's  net income and  earnings  per share would have been  restated as
follows:
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>

                                       Twelve Months Ended       Twelve Months Ended       Twelve Months Ended
                                        December 31, 1996         December 31, 1997         December 31, 1998
                                     ------------------------- ------------------------- ------------------------
<S>                  <C>               <C>                         <C>                       <C> 
Net(loss)/income:     As Reported       7,871                        (2,882)                  (24,437)
                      Restated          7,380                        (4,046)                  (23,930)
Basic EPS:            As Reported      (pound)0.073                 (pound)(0.026)           (pound)(0.138)
                      Restated         (pound)0.068                 (pound)(0.036)           (pound)(0.135)


Diluted EPS:          As Reported      (pound)0.060                      -                         -
                      Restated         (pound)0.056                      -                         -

</TABLE>

As at December 31, 1998,  the Company may grant options in respect of 21,162,859
shares in aggregate under the plans.


18. Commitments

Future capital expenditure authorised by management was (pound)1,210,000.

Operating lease payments were as follows

                                        1996         1997        1998
                                   (pound)'000   (pound)'000  (pound)'000
Hire of plant and equipment              104          124         142
Other operating leases                   462          354         354


The Group has commitments payable under operating leases as follows:

                                              Plant and machinery
          Year ended December 31                (pound)'000
          1999                                     193
          2000                                     142
          2001                                     121
          2002                                      13



19. Allowance for uncollectable accounts
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>

                                      Balance  at           Charged to       Accounts        Balance at
                                      beginning of          costs and        written         end of
                                      period                expenses         off             period
                                     (pound)'000           (pound)'000      (pound)'000     (pound)'000
<S>                                     <C>                 <C>              <C>               <C>
Allowance for uncollectable
 accounts deducted from trade
 debtors
December 31, 1996                         154                 -               80                 74
December 31, 1997                          74                 1                -                 75
December 31, 1998                          75                42                6                 111

</TABLE>


<PAGE>

20. Unaudited Quarterly Financial information

The Group has not submitted US GAAP quarterly  informatiom  during the 12 months
ended 31, December, 1997 and 31 December,  1998. The following represents the UK
GAAP filings together with a reconciliation  for each year to US GAAP.

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>

Year ended 31 December, 1998                                     Quarter Ended

                                        March 31,     June 30,    September 30,  December 31,      Total
                                       (pound)'000  (pound)'000    (pound)'000   (pound)'000      (pound)'000

<S>                                  <C>            <C>            <C>           <C>           <C>
Revenues                                     13,428        13,051         13,063        13,074        52,616
Cost of sales                                14,308        13,988         13,930        13,837        56,063
                                      -----------------------------------------------------------------------
Gross loss                                    (880)         (937)          (867)         (763)       (3,447)
Selling and administrative expenses         (2,123)       (2,097)        (2,152)       (2,828)       (9,200)
Exceptional items                                 -             -              -       (4,682)       (4,682)
                                      -----------------------------------------------------------------------
Operating loss                              (3,003)       (3,034)        (3,019)       (8,273)      (17,329)
Exceptional loss                                  -             -              -       (2,887)       (2,887)
Interest expense                            (1,561)       (1,108)        (1,595)       (1,243)       (5,507)
Other income/(expense)                          554         (248)            433         (418)           321
                                      -----------------------------------------------------------------------
Income before taxes                         (4,010)       (4,390)        (4,181)      (12,821)      (25,402)
Taxes                                             -           500              -            39           539
                                      =======================================================================
Net loss                                    (4,010)       (3,890)        (4,181)      (12,782)      (24,863)
                                      =======================================================================
Loss per share                       (pound)(0.035) (pound)(0.034) (pound)(0.025)(pound)(0.044)(pound)(0.144)
Average shares outstanding
  in period                             114,006,863   114,006,863    166,524,365   291,010,294   177,199,772

Restatement to US GAAP                                                                         (pound)'000
Net loss per UK GAAP                                                                               (24,863 )
Recognition of pension costs                                                                           (676)
Goodwill                                                                                            (7,342 )
Deferred taxation                                                                                      8,444
                                                                                               --------------
Net loss per US GAAP                                                                                (24,437)
                                                                                               --------------
</TABLE>


<PAGE>


20. Unaudited Quarterly Financial information (continued)
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                 Quarter Ended
Year ended 31 December, 1997          March 31,      June 30,    September 30,   December 31,      Total
                                  (pound)'000   (pound)'000    (pound)'000    (pound)'000    (pound)'000
<S>                              <C>               <C>             <C>            <C>            <C> 

Revenues                                   17,242         17,234         15,309         13,904        63,689
Cost of sales                              13,148         14,244         13,846         14,651        55,889
                                    -------------------------------------------------------------------------
Gross profit/(loss)                         4,094          2,990          1,463          (747)         7,800
Selling and administrative costs            2,081          1,876          2,498          2,301         8,756
Exceptional items                                          1,097            719          1,733         3,549
                                    -------------------------------------------------------------------------
Operating profit/(loss)                     2,013             17        (1,754)        (4,781)       (4,505)
Exceptional gain                                -              -              -          2,100         2,100
Interest expense                            (878)          (889)          (931)          (953)       (3,651)
Other income/(expense)                      (972)            361          (787)            299       (1,099)
                                    -------------------------------------------------------------------------
Income before taxes                           163          (511)        (3,472)        (3,335)       (7,155)
Taxes                                       (284)            324            751          1,052         1,843
                                    =========================================================================
Net loss                                    (121)          (187)        (2,721)        (2,283)       (5,312)
                                    =========================================================================
Loss per share                     (pound)(0.011)  (pound)(0.016)  (pound)(0.023) (pound)(0.200) (pound)(0.047)
Average shares outstanding
  in period to date                   111,314,555    114,006,863    114,006,863    114,006,863    112,935,450

Restatement to US GAAP                                                                            ((pound)000)
Net loss per UK GAAP                                                                                 (5,312)
Recognition of pension costs                                                                           (247)
Non-recognition of revaluation reserve                                                                 (119)
Goodwill                                                                                               (194)
Deferred taxation                                                                                      2,990
                                                                                               --------------
Net loss per US GAAP                                                                                (2,882 )
                                                                                               --------------
</TABLE>




</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-1
<SEQUENCE>2
<TEXT>


                              DATED 20TH APRIL 1998




                        HUNTINGDON LIFE SCIENCES LIMITED
                                 (as mortgagor)


                                     - and -


                          NATIONAL WESTMINSTER BANK Plc
                                   (as agent)








                               EQUIPMENT MORTGAGE


















                                   WILDE SAPTE
                                  1 Fleet Place
                                 London EC4M 7WS

                               Tel. 0171 246 7000
                               Fax. 0171 246 7777
                          Ref TJF/GP/58993/BF0316896.02


<PAGE>


                                TABLE OF CONTENTS

Clause        Heading                                                 Page No

1.    DEFINITIONS AND INTERPRETATION......................................2
2.    COVENANTS TO PAY....................................................3
3.    MORTGAGES, ASSIGNMENTS AND FIXED CHARGES............................4
4.    NEGATIVE PLEDGE.....................................................5
5.    FURTHER ASSURANCE...................................................5
6.    REPRESENTATIONS BY THE MORTGAGOR....................................6
7.    INSURANCE...........................................................6
8.    UNDERTAKINGS BY THE MORTGAGOR.......................................7
9.    ENFORCEMENT.........................................................9
10.   REMEDIES...........................................................10
11.   APPOINTMENT OF RECEIVER............................................11
12.   POWER OF ATTORNEY..................................................13
13.   PROTECTION OF PURCHASERS...........................................14
14.   CONSOLIDATION OF ACCOUNTS AND SET-OFF..............................14
15.   CURRENCY...........................................................15
16.   APPLICATION........................................................15
17.   NOTICES............................................................15
18.   NEW ACCOUNTS.......................................................16
19.   REMEDIES CUMULATIVE ETC............................................16
20.   PROVISIONS SEVERABLE...............................................17
21.   THE AGENT'S DISCRETION.............................................17
22.   AMENDMENTS.........................................................17
23.   LAW................................................................17
24.   ASSIGNMENT.........................................................18

SCHEDULE      - THE EQUIPMENT............................................19


<PAGE>


THIS EQUIPMENT MORTGAGE is made on 20th April 1998

BETWEEN:

1.           HUNTINGDON LIFE SCIENCES LIMITED, a company  incorporated under the
             laws of England and Wales with registered number 1815730 having its
             registered office at Woolley Road, Alconbury,  Huntingdon, PE17 5HS
             (the "Mortgagor"); and

2.           NATIONAL  WESTMINSTER BANK Plc of 3rd Floor, Juno Court, 25 Prescot
             Street, London, E1 8BB as agent and trustee for the Secured Parties
             (the "Agent").


WHEREAS:

(A)          By a facilities  agreement (the "Facilities  Agreement")  dated 1st
             November 1995 made between (1) the Mortgagor  (2)  Huntingdon  Life
             Sciences Group Plc, (3) Huntingdon Life Sciences Inc, (together the
             "Borrowers")  (4) the Banks (as defined  therein) and the Agent (as
             amended by a letter dated 21st November 1995),  the Banks agreed to
             make available certain facilities to the Borrowers on the terms set
             out therein.

(B)          By a guarantee  dated 1st November  1995 from the  Mortgagor to the
             Agent (as agent and trustee for the Secured Parties) (as amended by
             supplemental  deeds dated 20th January 1998 and 26th February 1998)
             (the  "Guarantee"),  the Mortgagor  guaranteed the  obligations and
             liabilities  of the  Borrowers  to the  Agent,  the  Banks  and the
             Overdraft Bank (as defined below).

(C)          Pursuant to a New  Facility  Letter dated 17th March 1998 (the "New
             Facility  Letter") from the Agent as overdraft bank (the "Overdraft
             Bank") in  respect of the new  overdraft  facility  being  provided
             thereunder,  the  Mortgagor  has agreed to execute this Mortgage to
             secure the further  performance by the Mortgagor of its obligations
             to the Overdraft Bank, the Agent and the Banks under the Facilities
             Agreement,  the New Facility  Letter and the  Guarantee by charging
             the Equipment on the terms set out herein.


NOW THIS DEED WITNESSETH as follows:

1.           DEFINITIONS AND INTERPRETATION

1.1          In this Mortgage,  unless the context otherwise  requires or unless
             otherwise  defined  or  provided  for in this  Mortgage,  words and
             expressions  shall have the same  meanings as is attributed to them
             under the  Facilities  Agreement  and the New Facility  Letter.  In
             addition,  the  following  words  and  expressions  shall  have the
             respective meanings ascribed to them:

             "Facility  Rate"  means the rate of  interest  specified  in Clause
             6.1.3  of the  New  Facility  Letter  and  calculated  as  provided
             therein.

             "Documents" means all logbooks,  maintenance records, record books,
             manuals,  handbooks,   drawings,   technical  data  and  all  other
             documents  from  time  to  time of the  Mortgagor  relating  to the
             Mortgaged Property.

             "Equipment"  means the  equipment  listed in the Schedule  together
             with any  replacements or substitutes for such containers and other
             equipment.

             "Insurances" means all insurances and all policies and contracts of
             insurance  effected or procured by the  Mortgagor or the Agent from
             time to time in respect of the  Equipment  (whether  in  accordance
             with Clause 7 or otherwise)  and all claims and all moneys  payable
             thereunder (including any return of premium in respect thereof).

             "Mortgaged Property" means all and any of the Equipment, Documents,
             and the  Insurances  and  any  other  property,  assets  or  income
             assigned  by way of  mortgage  or  charged  to the  Agent  under or
             pursuant to this Mortgage.

             "Receiver" means any receiver appointed pursuant to this Mortgage.

             "Secured Obligations" means all moneys now or at any time hereafter
             becoming due or owing by the  Mortgagor  to the Secured  Parties on
             any account and all liabilities, actual or contingent, now existing
             or  hereinafter  incurred by the  Mortgagor to the Secured  Parties
             (whether due,  owing or incurred by the Mortgagor  alone or jointly
             with any other person and whether as principal or surety).

             "Secured Parties" means all and each of the Overdraft Bank, the
             Agent and the Banks.

1.2          In this Mortgage (unless otherwise provided):

             (a)         references to Clauses and Schedules are to be construed
                         as references to the Clauses of, and Schedules to, this
                         Mortgage  as  amended  or varied  from time to time and
                         references  to  sub-Clauses   shall  unless   otherwise
                         specifically  stated be construed as  references to the
                         sub-Clauses  of  the  Clause  in  which  the  reference
                         appears and  references  to this  Mortgage  include its
                         Schedules;

             (b)         references  to  any  document  or  agreement  are to be
                         construed as  references  to such document or agreement
                         as is in  force  for the  time  being  and as  amended,
                         varied, novated or supplemented from time to time;

             (c)         words importing the singular shall include the plural
                        and vice versa;

             (d)         references  to a  person  shall be  construed  so as to
                         include  that  person's   assigns  or   transferees  or
                         successors in title and shall be construed as including
                         references to an individual,  firm, partnership,  joint
                         venture, company,  corporation,  unincorporated body of
                         persons or any state or any agency thereof;

             (e)         references  to  any  statute  or  statutory   provision
                         include  any  statute  or  statutory   provision  which
                         amends, extends,  consolidates or replaces the same, or
                         which  has  been  amended,  extended,  consolidated  or
                         replaced  by the same,  and shall  include  any orders,
                         regulations,    instruments   or   other    subordinate
                         legislation made under the relevant statute;

             (f)         the  words  "other"  and   "otherwise"   shall  not  be
                         construed  ejusdem  generis  with any  foregoing  words
                         where a wider construction is possible; and

             (g)         the  words  "including"  and "in  particular"  shall be
                         construed as being by way of  illustration  or emphasis
                         only and shall not be construed as, nor shall they take
                         effect as,  limiting the  generality  of any  foregoing
                         words.


2.           COVENANTS TO PAY

2.1          The Mortgagor hereby covenants with the Agent and each of the
             other Secured Parties that it will on demand pay and discharge
             each of the Secured Obligations when due to the Agent and the
             other Secured Parties.


2.2          A  certificate  signed by an officer of the Agent or other  Secured
             Party (as the case may be) as to the money and  liabilities for the
             time being due or incurred to the Agent or any other  Secured Party
             from or by the Mortgagor  shall for all purposes (in the absence of
             manifest error) be conclusive  evidence  against and binding on the
             Mortgagor.

3.           MORTGAGES, ASSIGNMENTS AND FIXED CHARGES

3.1          The Mortgagor, as continuing security for the full payment and
             discharge on demand of the Secured Obligations, hereby assigns
             with full title guarantee absolutely to the Agent (as agent
             and trustee for the Secured Parties):

             (a)         the Equipment and the Documents;

             (b)         all right, title, benefit and interest of the Mortgagor
                         (present,  future,  actual or contingent) in and to all
                         Insurances; and

             (c)         all right, title, benefit and interest of the Mortgagor
                         (present,  future,  actual or contingent) in and to all
                         warranties and other claims under or in connection with
                         the  sale  to  and  purchase  by the  Mortgagor  of the
                         Equipment  and/or  its  condition  and  repair  and all
                         contracts and agreements relating thereto.

3.2          The  Mortgagor and to the intent that the security  hereby  created
             shall  rank as a  continuing  security  for the  full  payment  and
             discharge on demand of the Secured  Obligations hereby charges with
             full title  guarantee  to the Agent (as agent and  trustee  for the
             Secured  Parties) by way of fixed charge all its property,  rights,
             interests  and other  assets  expressed to be assigned to the Agent
             pursuant  to  Clause  3.1  above  if and to the  extent  that  such
             assignments shall be or become ineffective but without prejudice to
             any such assignments as shall continue to be effective.

3.3          The security  constituted  by or pursuant to this Mortgage shall be
             in  addition  to and  shall be  independent  of every  bill,  note,
             guarantee,  mortgage,  pledge or other  security which the Agent or
             any other  Secured  Party may at any time hold in respect of any of
             the Secured  Obligations  and it is hereby  declared  that no prior
             security  held by the Agent or any  other  Secured  Party  over the
             Mortgaged  Property or any part thereof shall merge in the security
             created hereby or pursuant hereto.


4.           NEGATIVE PLEDGE

             The  Mortgagor  hereby  covenants  that,  without the prior written
             consent  of the  Agent,  it shall not nor shall it agree or purport
             to:

             (a)         create or permit to subsist any Encumbrance  whether in
                         any such case ranking in priority to or pari passu with
                         or after the security created by this Mortgage over the
                         whole or any part of the Mortgaged Property; or

             (b)         sell,  assign,   transfer,  or  otherwise  dispose  of,
                         whether  by means of one or a  number  of  transactions
                         related or not and whether at one time or over a period
                         of  time,  the  whole  or any  part  of  the  Mortgaged
                         Property or any interest therein; or

             (c)         lease, sub-lease, hire, lend or otherwise part with the
                         possession or operational  control of all or any of the
                         Equipment; or

             (d)         do or  permit to be done any act or thing  which  might
                         jeopardise  the  rights of the  Agent in the  Mortgaged
                         Property or any part thereof and will not omit or allow
                         the omission of any act which might  prevent the rights
                         of the  Agent  in the  Mortgaged  Property  or any part
                         thereof  from  being  exercised.  In  particular,   the
                         Mortgagor covenants that it shall obtain and effect and
                         keep  effective all  permissions,  licences and permits
                         which may from time to time be required  in  connection
                         with the Mortgaged Property.


5.           FURTHER ASSURANCE

             The Mortgagor  shall from time to time, at the request of the Agent
             or any Receiver and at the Mortgagor's  cost,  execute in favour of
             the  Agent,  or as it may  direct,  such  further  or  other  legal
             assignments, transfers, mortgages, charges or other documents as in
             any such case the Agent or any Receiver shall reasonably  stipulate
             over the  Mortgaged  Property  for the purpose of more  effectively
             providing security to the Agent for the payment or discharge of the
             Secured  Obligations.  The  obligations of the Mortgagor under this
             Clause  shall be in  addition  to and not in  substitution  for the
             covenants  for further  assurance  deemed to be included  herein by
             virtue of the Law of Property (Miscellaneous Provisions) Act 1994.


6.           REPRESENTATIONS BY THE MORTGAGOR

             The Mortgagor  hereby  represents and warrants to the Agent that at
             the date of this  Mortgage  the  Mortgagor  is the sole  legal  and
             beneficial  owner of the Mortgaged  Property and that the Mortgaged
             Property is free from all Encumbrances.


7.           INSURANCE

7.1          The  Mortgagor  covenants  and agrees with the Agent  that,  at all
             times  during the  subsistence  of the security  constituted  by or
             pursuant to this Mortgage,  the Mortgagor will (as its own cost and
             expense)  cause the  Equipment to be insured and to be kept insured
             with such insurers,  in such amounts and on such terms as the Agent
             reasonably  requires to a value not less than the full  replacement
             value of the  Equipment  and  against  any  liability  for death or
             injury  to any  person  and any  loss  or  damage  to any  property
             howsoever caused or arising.

7.2          The Mortgagor further covenants and agrees with the Agent that,
             during the continuance of this Mortgage, the Mortgagor shall:

             (a)         fully  and   promptly   comply   with  all  the  terms,
                         covenants,  undertakings  and conditions of each policy
                         of insurance  relating to any part of the Equipment and
                         will not do,  consent,  agree to,  suffer or permit any
                         act or  omission  which may  invalidate  any  policy of
                         insurance  relating  to any  part of the  Equipment  or
                         render the same unenforceable in whole or in part;

             (b)         ensure  that the Agent is  included  on each  policy of
                         insurance  relating to any part of the  Equipment as an
                         additional insured with no operational interests in the
                         Equipment  with the effect that the  provisions of each
                         policy of  insurance,  except the limits on  liability,
                         shall  operate as if there were a separate  policy with
                         and  covering  each  insured and so that the  insurance
                         provided   for  the  Agent  under  the  policy  is  not
                         invalidated  by any act or  omission on the part of the
                         Mortgagor or its servants or agents;

             (c)         ensure  that all  Insurances  contain  a clause  to the
                         effect that the policy may not be terminated, cancelled
                         or  materially  altered  unless at least 30 days  prior
                         notice of the  intended  termination,  cancellation  or
                         alteration has been given to the Agent;

             (d)         hold all slips,  cover notes and contracts and policies
                         of insurance  relating to the Equipment to the order of
                         the Agent  and  shall,  on the  request  of the  Agent,
                         deliver the originals or copies thereof to the Agent;

             (e)         duly and  punctually  pay all premiums and other moneys
                         due and payable under all such  insurances as aforesaid
                         and promptly  upon request by the Agent  produce to the
                         Agent the premium receipts or other evidence of payment
                         thereof; and

             (f)         not  terminate,  cancel or amend any insurance  without
                         the prior  written  consent of the Agent (such  consent
                         not to be unreasonably withheld).

7.3          If the  Mortgagor  fails to procure  that  insurance  is  effected,
             renewed or  maintained in  accordance  with the  provisions of this
             Clause 7, the Agent  shall be  entitled,  but not  bound,  to do so
             either  in its own name or in its  name  and that of the  Mortgagor
             jointly or in the name of the Mortgagor  with an endorsement of the
             Agent's interest. The moneys expended by the Agent on so effecting,
             renewing or maintaining  any such insurance  shall be reimbursed by
             the Mortgagor to the Agent on demand and until so reimbursed  shall
             carry interest at the Facility Rate

7.4          All  claims  and  moneys  received  or  receivable  under  any such
             insurances  as  aforesaid  shall at the  direction  of the Agent be
             applied  either in making  good the loss or  damage in  respect  of
             which the same has been  received or in or towards the discharge of
             the Secured Obligations.


8.           UNDERTAKINGS BY THE MORTGAGOR

8.1          The Mortgagor hereby covenants with the Agent that until discharge
             of the security hereby created:

             (a)         the  Mortgagor  shall,  at its own  expense,  keep  the
                         Equipment and all parts of the same in good operational
                         repair and condition in all  respects,  and to that end
                         (but without  limiting the generality of the foregoing)
                         shall carry out all necessary  maintenance,  overhauls,
                         replacements  and repairs to the Equipment and all such
                         parts;

             (b)         the Mortgagor  shall,  at its own expense,  comply with
                         all  provisions  having the force of law  affecting the
                         Equipment or any of them or any parts thereof and shall
                         maintain  the same in such  condition  so as to  comply
                         with all laws and regulations of any country to or from
                         which  any of the  Equipment  is  operated  or to whose
                         jurisdiction any of the Equipment is subject;

             (c)         the Mortgagor shall not knowingly  employ or suffer the
                         employment  of any of the  Equipment for any illegal or
                         unlawful purpose;

             (d)         the Mortgagor shall keep accurate, complete and current
                         records   complying  with  the   requirements   of  any
                         applicable  regulations  from time to time in force and
                         with  the   recommendations  of  the  manufacturers  or
                         supplier of the  Equipment  and of parts of the same of
                         the  location,  use and  condition of the Equipment and
                         shall upon request provide full written details thereof
                         to the Agent;

             (e)         the  Agent  shall  have the  right  (through  agents or
                         otherwise)  at  any  time  upon  reasonable  notice  to
                         inspect  the  Equipment  and the  records to be kept in
                         accordance with Clause 8.1(d);

             (f)         the  Mortgagor  shall do all acts and  things the Agent
                         may reasonably  require to protect the Agent's interest
                         in the  Mortgaged  Property  against  the claims of any
                         other person and shall at its own cost, if requested by
                         the  Agent,  affix  to  each  item  of  Equipment  in a
                         prominent  position a durable nameplate  containing the
                         following legend:

                         "This [description of Equipment] is the subject of a
                         mortgage in favour of * dated *"

                         and the  Mortgagor  shall not  remove or  obscure  such
                         nameplates  and shall not permit such  nameplates to be
                         removed or  obscured  and shall as soon as  practicable
                         replace  any  nameplate   which  is  removed,   becomes
                         detached or is or becomes obscured.

8.2          the Mortgagor shall indemnify and keep the Agent indemnified
             against and on demand reimburse the Agent for:

             (a)         all costs and expenses of operating, insuring,
                         maintaining and repairing the  Mortgaged Property;

             (b)         all damages,  liabilities,  claims,  costs and expenses
                         whatsoever  (including financial or consequential loss)
                         which  may  at any  time  be  made  or  claimed  by the
                         Mortgagor  or  by  any  employee,   servant,  agent  or
                         sub-contractor  of the  Mortgagor or by any third party
                         or parties or by their  respective  dependants  arising
                         directly   or   indirectly   out  of  the   possession,
                         management,  storage, operation, control, use, leasing,
                         maintenance and/or repair of any of the Equipment; and

             (c)         any losses, damages or expenses which, consequent upon
                         a judgment being obtained or enforced in respect of
                         the non-payment by the Mortgagor of any amount secured
                         by this Mortgage, arises or results from any variation
                         between the date of the said amount becoming due (or
                         the date of the said judgment being obtained as the
                         case may be) and the date of actual payment thereof in
                         the rates of exchange between the currency in which
                         such amount was due and the currency in which such
                         judgment was obtained and this indemnity granted from
                         time to time and shall continue in full force and
                         effect notwithstanding any judgment in favour of the
                         Agent.

8.3          The  Mortgagor  shall  pay  to  the  Agent  on  demand  all  moneys
             whatsoever which the Agent shall expend, be put to or become liable
             for in or about  the  protection  or  maintenance  of the  security
             created by this Mortgage, or in or about the exercise of its powers
             hereunder and shall indemnify the Agent (and as a separate covenant
             any Receiver or Receivers appointed by it) against all existing and
             future rents,  taxes, rates,  duties,  fees, renewal fees, charges,
             assessments,  impositions and outgoings whatsoever (whether imposed
             by deed or  statute  or  otherwise  and  whether  in the  nature of
             capital or revenue  and even  though of a wholly  novel  character)
             which now or at any time  during the  continuance  of the  security
             constituted by or pursuant to this Mortgage are properly payable in
             respect of the  Mortgaged  Property  or any part  thereof or by the
             owner or occupier thereof.

8.4          If any such sums as are referred to in Clause 8.3 shall be paid by
             the Agent (or any Receiver or Receivers) the same shall be
             reimbursed by the Mortgagor to the Agent on demand and until so
             reimbursed shall bear interest at the Facility Rate.


9.           ENFORCEMENT

9.1          At any time after the Agent  shall have duly  served  notice on the
             Mortgagor demanding payment or discharge by the Mortgagor of all or
             any  of  the  Secured  Obligations,  in  whole  or in  part,  or if
             requested by the Mortgagor or after an application to the court has
             been made for an administration order in relation to the Mortgagor,
             the Agent may exercise  without  further  notice and without any of
             the  restrictions  contained  in section 103 of the Law of Property
             Act 1925  (whether or not it shall have  appointed a Receiver)  all
             the powers  conferred on mortgagees by the Law of Property Act 1925
             and all the powers and discretions conferred by this Mortgage.

9.2          The restriction on the right of consolidating mortgage securities
             contained in section 93 of the Law of Property Act 1925 shall not
             apply to this Mortgage.

9.3          So far as permitted by law, neither the Agent nor any Receiver
             shall, by reason of it or any Receiver entering into possession of
             any part of the Mortgaged Property when entitled so to do,
             be liable to account as mortgagee in possession or be liable for
             any loss or realisation or for any default or omission for which
             a mortgagee in possession might be liable.


10.          REMEDIES

             After the security hereby created has become enforceable, the Agent
             shall be entitled as and when it may see fit:

             (a)    to take possession of all or any part of the Mortgaged
                    Property and to enter upon  any premises where the
                    Mortgaged Property or any part thereof may be located,
                    and, where necessary for so taking possession, to
                    sever any of the Equipment which may have become a
                    fixture, PROVIDED THAT, so far as permitted by law,
                    neither the Agent nor any Receiver shall, by reason
                    of it or any Receiver entering into possession of
                    any part of the Mortgaged Property when entitled so to
                    do, be liable for any loss or realisation or for any
                    default or omission for which a mortgagee in possession
                    might be liable;

             (b)    to sell,  call in,  collect and convert  into money the
                    Mortgaged  Property or any part thereof;  to repair and
                    keep  in  repair  the   Equipment  and  to  insure  the
                    Equipment  against  loss or damage,  against such risks
                    and in such sums and in such  manner as the Agent shall
                    think fit;

             (c)    to lease, sub-lease, enter into hire and hire-purchase,
                    conditional  sale  and  other  similar   agreements  or
                    otherwise deal with any or all of the Equipment on such
                    terms at such rents and generally upon such  conditions
                    and stipulations as the Agent considers fit;

             (d)    to settle, arrange, compromise or submit to arbitration
                    any accounts,  claims, questions or disputes whatsoever
                    which  may  arise  in  connection  with  the  Mortgaged
                    Property or in any way  relating to this  security  and
                    execute  receipts,  releases  or  other  discharges  in
                    relation   thereto   and  to   bring,   take,   defend,
                    compromise,  submit to arbitration  or discontinue  any
                    actions,  suits  or  proceedings  whatsoever  civil  or
                    criminal in relation to the Mortgaged Property;

             (e)    to  appoint  a  receiver  of  all or  any  part  of the
                    Mortgaged  Property upon such terms as to  remuneration
                    and otherwise as the Agent shall deem fit;

             (f)    to recover from the Mortgagor on demand all  reasonable
                    costs,  charges,  expenses incurred or payments made by
                    the   Agent   in   connection   with   the   execution,
                    registration  or  perfection  of this  Mortgage  or the
                    exercise of any right  contained in this Mortgage or in
                    connection with the enforcement of this Mortgage; and

             (g)    to execute and do all such acts, deeds and things as to
                    the Agent  acting  reasonably  may appear  necessary or
                    proper  for or in  relation  to  any  of  the  purposes
                    aforesaid.


11.          APPOINTMENT OF RECEIVER

11.1         At any time  after  the  Agent  shall  have  served  notice  on the
             Mortgagor  demanding  the payment or discharge by the  Mortgagor of
             all or any of the Secured  Obligations,  in whole or in part, or if
             requested by the  Mortgagor or after the  application  to the court
             for an administration  order in relation to the Mortgagor under the
             Insolvency  Act 1986,  the Agent may appoint one or more persons to
             be a Receiver or  Receivers of the  Mortgaged  Property or any part
             thereof.

11.2         Subject to section 45 of the Insolvency Act 1986, the Agent may:

             (a)   remove any Receiver previously appointed hereunder; and

             (b)   appoint  another person or other persons as Receiver or
                   Receivers, either in the place of a Receiver so removed
                   or who has  otherwise  ceased to act or to act  jointly
                   with  a  Receiver  or  Receivers  previously  appointed
                   hereunder.

11.3         If at any time and by virtue of any such  appointment(s) any two or
             more  persons  shall hold office as Receivers of the same assets or
             income,  each one of such Receivers  shall be entitled  (unless the
             contrary   shall  be  stated  in  any  of  the   deed(s)  or  other
             instrument(s)  appointing  them) to  exercise  all the  powers  and
             discretions  hereby conferred on Receivers  individually and to the
             exclusion of the other or others of them.

11.4         Every  such   appointment   or  removal,   and  every   delegation,
             appointment or removal by the Agent in the exercise of any right to
             delegate its powers or to remove delegates herein contained, may be
             made in writing  under the hand of any manager or other  officer of
             the Agent.

11.5         Every Receiver shall have:

             (a)   all the powers  conferred  by the Law of  Property  Act
                   1925  on  mortgagees   in   possession   and  receivers
                   appointed under that Act;

             (b)   power in the name or on  behalf  and at the cost of the
                   Mortgagor  to exercise  all the powers and rights of an
                   absolute  owner and do or omit to do anything which the
                   Mortgagor  itself  could do and to exercise  all powers
                   conferred on the Agent under this Mortgage; and

             (c) all the powers  specified in Schedule 1 of the  Insolvency  Act
1986.

11.6         In  making  any  sale or  other  disposal  of any of the  Mortgaged
             Property in the exercise of their respective powers the Receiver or
             the Agent may require any consideration  (without  prejudice to its
             obligations  under applicable law) and may accept, as and by way of
             consideration for such sale or other disposal,  cash, shares,  loan
             capital  or  other   obligations,   including  without   limitation
             consideration  fluctuating according to or dependent upon profit or
             turnover and  consideration  the amount whereof is to be determined
             by a third party.  Any such  consideration  may be  receivable in a
             lump sum or by instalments.

11.7         All moneys  received by any Receiver  appointed under this Mortgage
             shall be applied in the following order:

             (a)         in the payment of the costs, charges and expenses of
                         and incidental to the Receiver's appointment and the
                         payment of his remuneration;

             (b)         in the payment and discharge of any outgoings  paid and
                         liabilities incurred by the Receiver in the exercise of
                         any of the powers of the Receiver;

             (c)         in   providing   for  the   matters   (other  than  the
                         remuneration  of the  Receiver)  specified in the first
                         three  paragraphs  of  section  109(8)  of  the  Law of
                         Property Act 1925;

             (d)         in or towards  payment of any debts or claims which are
                         required by law to be paid in preference to the Secured
                         Obligations  but only to the extent to which such debts
                         or claims have such preference;

             (e)         in  or  towards   the   satisfaction   of  the  Secured
                         Obligations  in  accordance  with  the  terms  of  this
                         Mortgage;   and  any  surplus  shall  be  paid  to  the
                         Mortgagor or other person entitled thereto.

             The  provisions of this Clause and Clause 11.9 shall take effect as
             and by way of variation and extension to the provisions of the said
             section 109(8), which provisions as so varied and extended shall be
             deemed incorporated herein.

11.8         Every Receiver  shall be the agent of the Mortgagor  which shall be
             solely responsible for his acts and defaults and for the payment of
             his remuneration, costs, charges and expenses.

11.9         Every Receiver shall be entitled to  remuneration  for his services
             at a reasonable  rate to be fixed by agreement  between him and the
             Agent (or, failing such agreement,  to be conclusively fixed by the
             Agent)  commensurate  with the work and  responsibilities  involved
             upon the basis of charging  from time to time adopted in accordance
             with his current  practice or the current  practice of his firm and
             without  being  limited to the maximum  rate  specified  in section
             109(6) of the Law of Property Act 1925.


12.          POWER OF ATTORNEY

12.1         The Mortgagor hereby irrevocably appoints the following, namely:

             (a)  the Agent;

             (b)  each and every person to whom the Agent shall from time
                  to time have  delegated  the  exercise  of the power of
                  attorney conferred by this Clause; and

             (c)  any Receiver appointed hereunder and for the time being
                  holding office as such;

             jointly and also  severally to be its attorney or attorneys  and in
             its name and  otherwise on its behalf to do all acts and things and
             to  sign,  seal,  execute,  deliver,  perfect  and  do  all  deeds,
             instruments,  documents,  acts and things which may be required for
             carrying out any obligation imposed on the Mortgagor by or pursuant
             to this Mortgage  (including but not limited to the  obligations of
             the Mortgagor under Clause 5 (Further  Assurance) and the statutory
             covenant referred to in such Clause),  for carrying any sale, lease
             or other  dealing by the Agent or such  Receiver  into effect,  for
             getting in the Mortgaged  Property,  and generally for enabling the
             Agent and the Receiver to exercise the respective  powers conferred
             on them by or pursuant to this  Mortgage or by law. The Agent shall
             have  full  power to  delegate  the power  conferred  on it by this
             Clause,  but no  such  delegation  shall  preclude  the  subsequent
             exercise of such power by the Agent  itself or  preclude  the Agent
             from making a subsequent  delegation  thereof to some other person;
             any such delegation may be revoked by the Agent at any time.

12.2         The power of attorney  hereby granted is as regards the Agent,  its
             delegates  and  any  such  Receiver  (and as the  Mortgagor  hereby
             acknowledges)  granted  irrevocably  and for  value  as part of the
             security   constituted  by  this  Mortgage  to  secure  proprietary
             interests  in  and  the  performance  of  obligations  owed  to the
             respective  donees within the meaning of the Powers of Attorney Act
             1971.


13.          PROTECTION OF PURCHASERS

             No purchaser or other person dealing with the Agent or its delegate
             or any  Receiver  appointed  hereunder  shall  be  bound  to see or
             inquire whether the right of the Agent or such Receiver to exercise
             any of its or his  powers has  arisen or become  exercisable  or be
             concerned  with  notice to the  contrary,  or be  concerned  to see
             whether any such  delegation by the Agent shall have lapsed for any
             reason or been revoked.


14.          CONSOLIDATION OF ACCOUNTS AND SET-OFF

             In addition to any general lien or similar rights to which they may
             be entitled by operation of law,  each Secured Party shall have the
             right at any time and without notice to the Mortgagor to set off or
             transfer any sum or sums  standing to the credit of any accounts of
             the Mortgagor with such Secured Party (whether current or otherwise
             or subject to notice) in or towards  satisfaction  of the liability
             of the  Mortgagor  to such  Secured  Party  hereunder  on any other
             account or in any other  respect.  The  liabilities  referred to in
             this Clause may be actual, contingent, primary, collateral, several
             or  joint  liabilities,  and the  accounts,  sums  and  liabilities
             referred to in this Clause may be denominated in any currency.


15.          CURRENCY

             For the purpose of or pending the  discharge  of any of the Secured
             Obligations  the Agent may,  in its sole  discretion,  convert  any
             moneys  received,  recovered or realised in any currency under this
             Mortgage  (including the proceeds of any previous  conversion under
             this Clause) from their existing  currency of denomination into any
             other  currency at such rate or rates of exchange  and at such time
             as the Agent thinks fit.


16.          APPLICATION

             The Mortgagor shall have no rights in respect of the application by
             the Secured Parties of any sums received,  recovered or realised by
             the Agent under this Mortgage.


17.          NOTICES

17.1         Without  prejudice  to any other  method of service of notices  and
             communications  provided  by law,  a demand  or notice  under  this
             Mortgage  shall be in writing  signed by an officer or agent of the
             Agent and may be  served  on the  Mortgagor  by hand,  by post,  by
             facsimile transmission or by telex at the address set out above.

17.2         A  notice  or  demand  by the  Agent or any  Bank  shall be  deemed
             received the day after  posting if sent by first class post,  or if
             sent by telex or facsimile transmission shall be deemed received at
             the time of despatch  (or if sent  outside  working  hours the next
             day).

17.3         Any notice given to the Agent shall be deemed to have been given
             only on actual receipt.


18.          NEW ACCOUNTS

             If the Agent or any other of the other Secured Parties  receives or
             is deemed to be affected by notice whether  actual or  constructive
             of any subsequent  charge or other  interest  affecting any part of
             the Mortgaged  Property  and/or the proceeds of sale thereof,  then
             the Secured  Parties  may open a new  account or accounts  with the
             Mortgagor.  If the  Secured  Parties  do not open a new  account or
             accounts they shall  nevertheless be treated as if they had done so
             at the time when the notice was, or was deemed to be,  received and
             as from that time all payments made to the Secured Parties shall be
             credited or be treated as having  been  credited to the new account
             or  accounts  and shall not  operate to reduce the amount for which
             this Mortgage is security.


19.          REMEDIES CUMULATIVE ETC.

19.1         The  rights,  powers and  remedies  provided in this  Mortgage  are
             cumulative and are not, nor are they to be construed as,  exclusive
             of any rights, powers or remedies provided by law or otherwise.

19.2         No  failure on the part of the Agent to  exercise,  or delay on its
             part  in  exercising,  any of its  respective  rights,  powers  and
             remedies  provided  by this  Mortgage or by law  (collectively  the
             "Rights") shall operate as a waiver  thereof,  nor shall any single
             or partial  waiver of any of the  Rights  preclude  any  further or
             other exercise of that one of the Rights  concerned or the exercise
             of any other of the Rights.

19.3         The Mortgagor hereby agrees to indemnify the Agent and any Receiver
             against all losses, actions,  claims, costs, charges,  expenses and
             liabilities  incurred by the Agent and by any  Receiver  (including
             any substitute  delegate attorney as aforesaid) in relation to this
             Mortgage or the Secured Obligations (including, without limitation,
             the reasonable costs, charges and expenses incurred in the carrying
             of this  Mortgage  into  effect  or in the  exercise  of any of the
             rights,  remedies and powers  conferred hereby or in the perfection
             or  enforcement  of the  security  constituted  hereby or  pursuant
             hereto or in the  perfection or  enforcement  of any other security
             for  or  guarantee  in  respect  of  the  Secured  Obligations)  or
             occasioned  by any breach by the  Mortgagor any of its covenants or
             obligations  under this Mortgage.  The Mortgagor shall so indemnify
             the Agent and any  Receiver on demand and shall pay interest on the
             sum demanded at the Facility Rate any sum so demanded together with
             any  interest,  shall be a charge  upon the  Mortgaged  Property in
             addition to the moneys hereby secured.


20.          PROVISIONS SEVERABLE

             Every  provision  contained in this Mortgage shall be severable and
             distinct from every other such provision and if at any time any one
             or  more of such  provisions  is or  becomes  invalid,  illegal  or
             unenforceable,  the validity,  legality and  enforceability  of the
             remaining such provisions shall not in any way be affected thereby.


21.          THE AGENT'S DISCRETION

21.1         Any liberty or power which may be  exercised  or any  determination
             which may be made  hereunder  by the Agent may be exercised or made
             in the absolute and unfettered  discretion of the Agent which shall
             not be under any obligation to give reasons therefor.

21.2         A  certificate  by an officer of the Agent (a) as to the amount for
             the time being due to the Agent and the other  Secured  Parties and
             (b) as to any sums  payable to the Agent  hereunder  shall (save in
             the case of manifest  error) be  conclusive  and  binding  upon the
             Mortgagor for all purposes.


22.          AMENDMENTS

             No  amendments  or waiver of any  provision of this Mortgage and no
             consent to any  departure by the Mortgagor  therefrom  shall in any
             event be  effective  unless the same shall be in writing and signed
             or  approved  in  writing  by the  Agent,  and then such  waiver or
             consent  shall be effective  only in the specific  instance and for
             the specific purpose for which it was given.


23.          LAW

             This  Mortgage is governed by and shall be construed in  accordance
             with English law.


24.          ASSIGNMENT

             If the Secured Parties or any of them sell,  assign or transfer any
             of their respective  Secured  Obligations the Secured Parties shall
             have a full and  unfettered  right to assign or otherwise  transfer
             the whole or any part of the  benefit  of this  Mortgage  to secure
             such Secured  Obligations  and the expression the "Agent"  wherever
             used  herein  shall be deemed to include  the  assignees  and other
             successors,  whether  immediate or  derivative,  of the Agent,  who
             shall be entitled to enforce and proceed upon this  Mortgage in the
             same  manner as if named  herein.  The Agent  shall be  entitled to
             disclose  any  information  concerning  the  Mortgagor  to any such
             assignee  or  other   successor  or  any  participant  or  proposed
             assignee, successor or participant.


IN WITNESS  whereof the  Mortgagor  has executed this Mortgage as a deed and the
Agent has  executed  this  Mortgage  under  hand with the  intention  that it be
delivered on the day and year first before written.


<PAGE>


                                    SCHEDULE

                                  THE EQUIPMENT








<PAGE>



EXECUTED AS A Deed by                  )
HUNTINGDON LIFE                        )
SCIENCES LIMITED                       )               Director
acting by                              )
and by                                 )               Director/Secretary




SIGNED for and on behalf of            )
NATIONAL WESTMINSTER                   )
BANK Plc                               )






</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-1
<SEQUENCE>3
<TEXT>


                               SECURITY AGREEMENT


         SECURITY  AGREEMENT  (the "Security  Agreement")  dated as of April 30,
1998  between  HUNTINGDON  LIFE  SCIENCES  INC.,  a  Delaware  corporation  (the
"Company"), and NATIONAL WESTMINSTER BANK PLC (the "Agent"), as collateral agent
for (i) the banks  parties to the  Facilities  Agreement  referred to below (the
"Facility  Banks") and (ii)  itself,  as  Overdraft  Bank under the New Facility
Letter referred to below (in such capacity, the "Overdraft Bank").

                              W I T N E S S E T H:


         WHEREAS, the Company, Huntingdon Life Sciences Limited, Huntington Life
Sciences  Group  plc,  the  Facility  Banks and the Agent  have  entered  into a
Facilities  Agreement,  dated as of  November  1,  1995 (as  amended,  modified,
supplemented or extended from time to time, the "Facilities Agreement") pursuant
to which the Facility Banks have agreed to make certain facilities  available to
the Company, Huntingdon Life Sciences Limited and Huntington Life Sciences Group
plc; 

         WHEREAS,  in  connection  with the  Facilities  Agreement,  the Company
executed and delivered (i) a Guarantee dated as of November 1, 1995 (as amended,
modified,  supplemented or extended from time to time, the "Guarantee") in favor
of the Agent for the benefit of the Facility Banks and (ii) a Mortgage, Security
Agreement and Fixture Filing dated as of January 20, 1998 (as amended, modified,
supplemented  and extended from time to time,  the  "Mortgage")  in favor of the
Agent for the benefit of the Facility Banks; and

         WHEREAS,  pursuant to a New Facility  Letter dated as of March 17, 1998
(as amended,  modified,  supplemented  and extended from time to time,  the "New
Facility  Letter")  from the  Agent,  as  Overdraft  Bank in  respect of the new
overdraft  facility provided for therein,  the Company has agreed to execute and
deliver this Security  Agreement to secure its obligations  under the Facilities
Agreement, the Guarantee and the New Facility Letter;

         NOW, THEREFORE,  in consideration of the foregoing,  the Company hereby
agrees with the Agent,  for the benefit of the Facility  Banks and the Overdraft
Bank (the Agent,  the Facility  Banks and the  Overdraft  Bank are  collectively
referred to herein as the "Secured Parties"), as follows:

         SECTION 1. Definitions.  Unless otherwise  indicated,  capitalized
terms used herein and not defined herein shall have the respective meanings
given to them in the Facilities Agreement.

         SECTION 2. Grant of  Security.  The Company  hereby  assigns,  pledges,
transfers  and grants to the Agent,  for the benefit of the Secured  Parties,  a
continuing  security  interest in, and a lien upon, all of the Company's  right,
title and interest in, to and under, the following:

         (a) The Company's  demand deposit  account  (account  number 191 10015)
with The First National Bank of Maryland (the "Pledged  Account") and all monies
and credit balances from time to time held in the Pledged Account;

         (b) The equipment and property described on Exhibit A hereto,  together
with all replacements and subsequent  replacements  thereof  (collectively,  the
"Equipment"); and

         (c) Any and all proceeds of any of the foregoing.

         The property  referred to and described in (a), (b) and (c) of this
Section 2 is hereinafter  collectively  referred to as the "Collateral".
- -----------

         SECTION 3. Security for Obligations.  This Security  Agreement  secures
the payment of all obligations and liabilities now or hereafter  existing of (i)
the Company, Huntingdon Life Sciences Limited and Huntingdon Life Sciences Group
plc to the Agent and the Facility Banks under the  Facilities  Agreement and the
related  documents  referred to  therein,  (ii) the Company to the Agent and the
Facilities  Banks under the Guarantee,  and (iii) the Company,  Huntingdon  Life
Sciences  Limited and Huntingdon  Life Sciences Group plc under the New Facility
Letter and (iv) all other  liabilities and obligations of whatever nature of the
Company,  Huntingdon Life Sciences Limited and/or Huntingdon Life Sciences Group
plc now or  hereafter  owed to any one or  more  of the  Secured  Parties,  such
obligations and  liabilities set forth in clauses (i), (ii),  (iii) and (iv) are
collectively referred to herein as the "Secured Obligations").

         SECTION 4.   Covenants.

         (a) The  Company  agrees  that from  time to time,  at its own cost and
expense,  the  Company  will  promptly  execute and deliver and will cause to be
executed and delivered all further instruments and documents, including, without
limitation,  financing and  continuation  statements,  and will take all further
action  and will  cause  all  further  action  to be  taken,  that the Agent may
reasonably  request  in order to  create,  preserve,  perfect  and  protect  the
security  interest  in the  Collateral  or to enable the Agent to  exercise  and
enforce its rights and remedies  hereunder  or to preserve,  perfect and protect
the Company's right, title and interest in and to the Collateral.

         (b) The  Company  hereby  authorizes  the  Agent  to  file  one or more
financing or continuation statements,  and amendments thereto, and take all such
further action and execute all such further  documents and instruments as may be
necessary  or desirable  in order to create,  preserve,  perfect and protect the
security  interest in the Collateral  without the signature of the Company where
permitted by law.

         (c) The Company will at all times keep accurate and complete  books and
records  with  respect  to the  Collateral  and  agrees  that  the  Agent or its
representative  shall  have the  right at any time and from  time to time,  upon
reasonable  advance  notice,  to call at the Company's  place of business during
normal  business  hours to  inspect  and  examine  the books and  records of the
Company  relating to the  Collateral  and to make extracts  therefrom and copies
thereof.

         (d) The Company  hereby  covenants with the Agent and each of the other
Secured  Parties that it will pay and discharge each of the Secured  Obligations
owed by the Company when due to the Agent and the other Secured Parties.

         (e) A  certificate  signed by an officer of the Agent or other  Secured
Party (as the case may be) as to the money and  liabilities  for the time  being
due or incurred to the Agent or any other Secured  Party,  as shown on the books
and records of the Agent or such Secured Party, from or by the Company shall for
all purposes (in the absence of manifest error) be conclusive  evidence  against
and binding on the Company.

         (f) The  Company  hereby  covenants  that,  without  the prior  written
consent of the Agent, it shall not nor shall it agree to purport to:

                  (i) create or permit to exist any lien,  security  interest or
encumbrance,  whether in any such case ranking in priority to or pari passu with
or after the security interest created by this Security Agreement over the whole
or any part of the  Collateral,  other  than  liens in  favor  of  mechanics  or
materialsmen  or for taxes not yet due and payable or which are being  contested
in good  faith by  appropriate  proceedings  and for  which  reserves  have been
established in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles; or

                  (ii)  sell,  assign,  transfer,  lease,  sub-lease,  hire,  or
otherwise  dispose  of,  whether  by means of one or a  number  of  transactions
related or not and  whether  at one time or over a period of time,  the whole or
any part of the Collateral or any interest therein; or

                  (iii) do or  permit  to be done any act or thing  which  might
jeopardize  the rights of the Agent in the  Collateral  or any part  thereof and
will not omit or allow the omission of any act which might prevent the rights of
the  Agent in the  Collateral  or any part  thereof  from  being  exercised.  In
particular,  the  Company  covenants  that it shall  obtain  and effect and keep
effective  all permits,  licenses and  approvals  which may from time to time be
required in connection with the Collateral.

         (g) The Company  covenants and agrees with the Agent that, at all times
during the  subsistence of the security  interest  constituted by or pursuant to
this Security  Agreement,  the Company will (at its own cost and expense)  cause
the Equipment to be insured and to be kept insured with such  insurers,  in such
amounts and on such terms as maintained by similarly  situated  companies  using
similar items of Equipment in the conduct of their business, but in any event in
an amount not less than the full replacement value thereof.

         (h) The  Company  further  covenants  and agrees  with the Agent  that,
during the continuance of this Security Agreement, the Company shall:

         (i)  fully  and  promptly   comply  with  all  the  terms,   covenants,
undertakings and conditions of each policy of insurance  relating to any part of
the  Equipment and will not do,  consent,  agree to, suffer or permit any act or
omission which may  invalidate  any policy of insurance  relating to any part of
the Equipment or render the same unenforceable in whole or in part;

         (ii) ensure that the Agent is included  (A) on each policy of liability
insurance relating to any part of the Equipment as an additional insured with no
operational  interests in the Equipment  with the effect that the  provisions of
each policy of insurance,  except the limits on  liability,  shall operate as if
there were a separate  policy  with and  covering  each  insured and so that the
insurance  provided for the Agent under the policy is not invalidated by any act
or omission on the part of the Company or its servants or agents and (B) on each
policy of property damage  insurance  relating to any part of the Equipment as a
loss payee;

         (iii)  ensure that all  insurance  contains a clause to the effect that
the policy may not be  terminated,  cancelled or  materially  altered  unless at
least  30  days  prior  notice  of the  intended  termination,  cancellation  or
alteration has been given to the Agent;

         (iv)  hold all  slips,  cover  notes  and  contracts  and  policies  of
insurance  relating to the Equipment to the order of the Agent and shall, on the
request of the Agent, deliver the originals or copies thereof to the Agent;

         (v) duly and  punctually  pay all  premiums  and other  moneys  due and
payable  under all such  insurance as aforesaid and promptly upon request by the
Agent  provide to the Agent the premium  receipts  or other  evidence of payment
thereof; and

         (vi) not terminate or cancel any insurance  without the prior  delivery
to the Agent of evidence of such  replacement  insurance  coverage in respect of
the Equipment satisfying the requirements set forth herein.

         (i) If the Company fails to obtain and maintain  insurance  coverage in
accordance  with the  provisions  hereof,  the Agent shall be entitled,  but not
bound,  to do so either  in its own name or in its name and that of the  Company
jointly  or in the  name of the  Company  with  an  endorsement  of the  Agent's
interest.  All amounts  expended by the Agent on so obtaining or maintaining any
such  insurance  shall be  reimbursed  by the Company to the Agent on demand and
shall carry interest at the Facility Rate from the date such amounts are paid by
the Agent to but not  including  the date such amounts are repaid in full by the
Company.

         (j) All  claims  and  moneys  received  or  receivable  under  any such
insurance  coverage as  aforesaid  shall at the option of the Company be applied
either in making  good the loss or damage in  respect of which the same has been
received or in or towards the discharge of the Secured  Obligations prior to the
occurrence of an Event of Default (as defined  below).  Upon the  occurrence and
during the  continuation of an Event of Default,  all claims and moneys received
or receivable  under such  insurance  coverage  shall be applied by the Agent in
discharge of the Secured Obligations.

         (k) The Company hereby covenants with the Agent that until discharge of
the security interest hereby created:

         (i) the Company shall,  at its own expense,  keep the Equipment and all
parts of the same in good operational repair and condition in all respects,  and
to that end (but without  limiting the generality of the foregoing)  shall carry
out all  necessary  maintenance,  overhauls,  replacements  and  repairs  to the
Equipment and all such parts;

         (ii) the Company shall, at its own expense,  comply with all provisions
having  the force of law  affecting  the  Equipment  or any of them or any parts
thereof and shall  maintain the same in such  condition so as to comply with all
laws and  regulations  of any  jurisdiction  in which  any of the  Equipment  is
operated or to which any of the Equipment is subject;

         (iii) the Company shall not knowingly  employ or suffer the  employment
of any of the Equipment for any illegal or unlawful purpose;

         (iv) the Company shall do all acts and things the Agent may  reasonably
require to protect the Agent's  interest in the Equipment  against the claims of
any other person.

         (l) The Company shall indemnify and keep the Agent indemnified  against
and on demand reimburse the Agent for:

         (i)  all reasonable costs and expenses of operating,  insuring,
maintaining and repairing the Equipment actually incurred by the Agent;

         (ii) all damages,  liabilities,  claims,  reasonable costs and expenses
whatsoever  (including financial or consequential loss) which may at any time be
made  or  claimed  by  the  Company  or  by  an  employee,   servant,  agent  or
sub-contractor  of the  Company  or by any third  party or  parties  or by their
respective  dependants  arising  directly or indirectly  out of the  possession,
management, storage, operation, control, use, leasing, maintenance and/or repair
of any of the Equipment; and

         (iii) all losses, damages or expenses which, consequent upon a judgment
being  obtained or enforced in respect of the  non-payment by the Company of any
amount  secured by this Security  Agreement,  arise or result from any variation
between  the  date of the  said  amount  becoming  due (or the  date of the said
judgment  being  obtained  as the case may be) and the  date of  actual  payment
thereof in the rates of exchange  between the  currency in which such amount was
due and the currency in which such  judgment  was  obtained  and this  indemnity
granted   from  time  to  time   shall   continue   in  full  force  and  effect
notwithstanding any judgment in favor of the Agent.

         (m) The Company shall pay to the Agent on demand all moneys  whatsoever
which the Agent  shall  expend,  be put to or become  liable for in or about the
protection  or  maintenance  of the security  interest  created by this Security
Agreement,  or in or about  the  exercise  of its  powers  hereunder  and  shall
indemnify the Agent against all existing and future taxes, rates,  duties, fees,
charges,  assessments,  impositions and outgoings whatsoever (whether imposed by
deed or statute or otherwise and whether in the nature of capital or revenue and
even  though of a wholly  novel  character)  which now or at any time during the
continuance of the security interest constituted by or pursuant to this Security
Agreement are properly payable in respect of the Collateral or any part thereof.

         (n) If any such sums as are  referred to in Section  4(m) shall be paid
by the Agent, the same shall be reimbursed by the Company to the Agent on demand
and shall bear interest at the Facility Rate from the date such amounts are paid
by the Agent to but not  including  the date such  amounts are repaid in full by
the Company.

         (o) With  respect to any amount  that the Company is required to pay by
reason of any provision hereunder, including, without limitation, Sections 4(i),
(l), (m) and (n), the Agent shall submit to the Company  relevant  documentation
to substantiate the requested payment.
         (p) Notwithstanding  anything herein to the contrary, the Company shall
not be liable for any  amounts  set forth in  Sections  4(l)  through (n) hereof
which result from the gross negligence or wilful misconduct of the Agent.

         (q) The Company  agrees that until  discharge of the Security  Interest
created herein, the Company shall not establish or maintain any deposit accounts
other than the Pledged Account. The Company further covenants and agrees that it
shall cause all  receivables,  payments or proceeds  from the  operation  of the
Company's  business  of any kind  whatsoever  to be paid  directly  to, or to be
deposited  into,  the Pledged  Account.  Prior to the  occurrence of an Event of
Default  (as  defined  below),  the  Company  shall  have the  right  to  direct
withdrawals and disbursements from the Pledged Account in the ordinary course of
its business,  as set forth in the account  letter among the Company,  the Agent
and The First National Bank of Maryland,  a copy of which is attached  hereto as
Exhibit B. For so long as no Event of Default has  occurred,  the Company  shall
have the right to direct the  investment of funds in the Pledged  Account in the
following investments (collectively,  "Permitted Investments") having a maturity
of 90 days or less, as determined by the Company:  (i) direct obligations of the
United States and (ii) interest-bearing  obligations of any domestic bank having
a short-term  credit  rating of at least A-1 by Standard and Poors Ratings Group
and at least P-1 by Moody's Investors Service,  Inc.;  provided that the Company
may make such  investments  only if the investment  certificates are held in the
Pledged Account.

         SECTION 5.   Representations and Warranties.

         (a) This Security  Agreement has been duly  authorized by all necessary
action of the Company, and validly and duly executed and delivered to the Agent.
This Security  Agreement  constitutes the legal, valid and binding obligation of
the Company, enforceable against the Company in accordance with its terms.

         (b) All of the  Equipment  is,  and each  replacement  or  substitution
thereof and any and all proceeds thereof will be, located at the Company's place
of business and chief executive  office at Mettlers Road,  East  Millstone,  New
Jersey 08875-2360.

         (c) The Company is the legal and  beneficial  owner of each item of the
Collateral,  free and clear of any lien or encumbrance,  except for the security
interest created under this Security Agreement. No effective financing statement
or other similar  instrument  covering any part of the  Collateral is on file in
any  recording  office,  except  as may have been  filed in favor of the  Agent,
relating to this Security Agreement.

         (d) The Company has possession and exclusive control of the Equipment.

         (e) The Company has no deposit  accounts other than the Pledged Account
and the accounts set forth on Exhibit B.

         (f) Upon  filing of UCC-1  forms  appropriately  completed  in Somerset
County,  New  Jersey,  all  filings and other  action  necessary  to perfect the
security  interest  over the  Equipment  shall have been  taken.  This  Security
Agreement  creates a valid,  perfected first priority  security  interest in the
Collateral securing the payment of the Secured Obligations.

         SECTION  6.  Agent  Appointed  Attorney-in-Fact.   The  Company  hereby
irrevocably  appoints  the  Agent  the  Company's  attorney-in-fact,  with  full
authority  in the place and stead of the  Company and in the name of the Company
or otherwise, from time to time after the occurrence and during the continuation
of an event of default as defined  in the  Facilities  Agreement  or an event of
default as defined in the New  Facility  Letter or any failure by the Company to
keep or perform any covenant or undertaking hereunder which failure shall remain
uncured for three days after the Company's receipt of a notice thereof (each, an
"Event of  Default"),  to take any  action,  to execute any  instruments  and to
exercise  any rights,  privileges,  options,  elections or powers of the Company
pertaining or relating to the  Collateral  which the Agent may deem necessary or
desirable to preserve and enforce its security  interest in the  Collateral  and
otherwise to accomplish the purposes of this Security Agreement. The Agent shall
not have any duty to take any such action,  to execute any such  instrument,  to
exercise any such rights, privileges,  options,  including,  without limitation,
termination options, elections or powers or to sell or otherwise to realize upon
any of the  Collateral,  as hereinafter  authorized,  and the Agent shall not be
responsible for any failure to do so or delay in so doing.

         SECTION 7.  Agent May  Perform.  If the  Company  fails to perform  any
agreement contained herein, the Agent may (but shall not be obligated to) itself
perform,  or cause  performance of, such agreement.  The Company shall reimburse
the Agent on demand for any amounts paid or any  expenses  incurred by the Agent
in good faith in connection therewith,  and shall carry interest at the Facility
Rate from the date such amounts are paid by the Agent to but not  including  the
date on which such amounts are repaid in full by the Company.

         SECTION 8. Agent's Duties.  The powers conferred on the Agent hereunder
are solely to protect  its  interest  in the  Collateral  for the benefit of the
Secured  Parties  and shall not  impose  any duty upon it to  exercise  any such
powers.  Except as expressly  provided  herein,  the Agent shall have no duty to
take any steps to preserve the security interest granted hereby.

         SECTION 9. Realization  upon  Collateral.  If an Event of Default shall
occur and be  continuing,  the Agent  may,  and at the  request  of the  Secured
Parties  shall,  for the  benefit of the Secured  Parties,  (i) take any and all
action  necessary or appropriate to collect any and all amounts payable under or
with  respect to the  Collateral,  (ii) apply any and all amounts in the Pledged
Account to the Secured  Obligations in accordance  with Section 9 hereof,  (iii)
take possession of the Collateral forthwith or at any time thereafter,  in which
case the Company shall  marshal and deliver the  Collateral to the Agent at such
time and place as the Agent may reasonably specify,  and (iv) sell the whole or,
from time to time,  any part of the  Collateral,  by private or public sale,  in
such order or otherwise in such manner as the Secured Parties may elect in their
sole  discretion.  The Agent  shall have,  with  respect to the  Collateral,  in
addition to any other rights and remedies which may be available to it at law or
in equity or  pursuant  to this  Security  Agreement  or any other  contract  or
agreement,  all rights and  remedies  of a secured  party  under any  applicable
version of the Uniform Commercial Code of the relevant jurisdictions relating to
the Collateral,  and it is expressly  agreed that if the Agent should proceed to
dispose of or utilize the  Collateral,  or any part thereof,  in accordance with
the provisions of said versions of the Uniform Commercial Code, ten days' notice
by the Agent to the Company  shall be deemed to be  reasonable  notice under any
such provision requiring such notice. Any sale of Collateral by the Agent may be
made on such terms as the Secured  Parties may  specify,  without  assuming  any
credit risk and without any  obligation  to advertise or give notice of any kind
other  than that  necessary  under  applicable  law.  The Agent and the  Secured
Parties shall incur no liability as a result of the sale of the  Collateral,  or
any part thereof,  at any private or public sale. The Company hereby waives,  to
the extent  permitted by  applicable  law, any claims  against the Agent and the
Secured Parties arising by reason of the fact that the price at which Collateral
may have been sold at such a private  sale was less than the price  which  might
have been obtained at a public sale or was less than the aggregate amount of the
Secured Obligations, even if the Agent accepts the first offer received and does
not offer such Collateral to more than one possible purchaser. In exercising its
rights  under this  Section 9, the Agent will act in a  commercially  reasonable
manner.

         SECTION 10. Application of Proceeds. The Agent shall apply the proceeds
of any realization upon or sale of the whole or any part of the Collateral after
deducting all reasonable costs and expenses of collection,  retaking,  handling,
storage,  preparation,   sale  and  delivery  (including,   without  limitation,
reasonable  counsel's fees and expenses)  incurred by it in connection with such
realization  or sale to the payment of the Secured  Obligations.  Any surplus of
such payments or cash proceeds held by the Agent and remaining  after payment in
full of all the Secured  Obligations shall be paid over to the Company,  and the
Company shall remain in all respects liable to the Agent, the Facility Banks and
the Overdraft Bank for any unrecovered balance owing to them.

         SECTION  11.  Waiver of Stays,  etc.  To the  fullest  extent  that the
Company may lawfully so agree,  the Company  agrees that it will not at any time
plead,  claim  or  take  the  benefit  of  any  appraisement,  valuation,  stay,
extension,  moratorium or redemption law now or hereafter in force to prevent or
delay the  enforcement  of this  Security  Agreement or the absolute sale of any
portion of or all of the Collateral or the  possession  thereof by any purchaser
at any sale under this Security Agreement,  and the Company,  for itself and all
who may claim under the Company, as far as the Company now or hereafter lawfully
may do so, hereby waives the benefit of all such laws.

          SECTION 12.  Amendments,  etc. No amendment,  modification  or
waiver of any provision of this Security Agreement, nor consent to any departure
by the Company therefrom,  shall in any event be effective unless the same shall
be in writing and signed by the Agent with the  consent of the  Secured  Parties
(or all of the Facility Banks, to the extent required pursuant to the Facilities
Agreement),  and then such  waiver or  consent  shall be  effective  only in the
specific instance and for the specific purpose for which given.

         SECTION 13. Notices.  Unless otherwise  specified herein,  all notices,
requests and other  communications  to any party  hereunder  shall be in writing
(including  telex,  telecopier  or similar  writing)  and shall be given to such
party at its address or telex or telecopier  number set forth in the  Facilities
Agreement or such other address or telex or telecopier  number as such party may
hereafter specify by notice to the other party.

         SECTION 14. Continuing Security Interest. This Security Agreement shall
create a continuing  security interest in the Collateral and shall (a) remain in
full force and effect until the later of (i) the  termination of the commitments
under the Facilities Agreement and the commitments under the New Facility Letter
or  (ii)  the   payment  in  full  of  the  Secured   Obligations   (other  than
indemnification  obligations  as to which a claim has not been  asserted at this
time),  (b) be binding upon the Company and its  successors  and assigns and (c)
inure to the  benefit  of the  Agent,  each of the  Secured  Parties  and  their
respective  successors,  transferees  and  assigns.  Upon  the  later of (i) the
termination  of  the  commitments   under  the  Facilities   Agreement  and  the
commitments  under the New  Facility  Letter or (ii) the  payment in full of the
Secured Obligations (other than indemnification  obligations as to which a claim
has not been asserted at such time), the security  interest granted hereby shall
terminate and all rights to the Collateral shall revert to the Company. Upon any
such termination and the payment in full of the Secured  Obligations (other than
indemnification  obligations  as to which a claim has not been  asserted at such
time), the Agent will, at the expense of the Company, execute and deliver to the
Company such documents as the Company shall reasonably  request to evidence such
termination.

         SECTION 15. No Waiver;  Cumulative Remedies.  No failure on the part of
the Agent to exercise,  and no delay in exercising,  any right,  power or remedy
hereunder  shall  operate as a waiver  thereof,  nor shall any single or partial
exercise of any such right,  power or remedy by the Agent  preclude any other or
further  exercise  thereof or the exercise of any other right,  power or remedy.
All rights,  powers and remedies  hereunder are cumulative and are not exclusive
of any other rights, powers and remedies provided by law.

         SECTION 16.   Responsibility of the Agent.

         (a) By  accepting  the  benefits  hereof,  each  Secured  Party  hereby
irrevocably designates and appoints,  subject to Section 16(e) hereof, the Agent
as Agent under this Security Agreement,  to take such action on its behalf under
the  provisions  of this  Security  Agreement  and to  exercise  such powers and
perform  such duties as are  expressly  delegated  to such Agent by the terms of
this  Security  Agreement,  together  with such other  powers as are  reasonably
incidental thereto.

         (b) By accepting  the benefits  hereof,  each Secured Party agrees that
(i) neither the Agent, nor any of its directors, officers or employees or agents
shall be liable for any action  taken or omitted to be taken by them  hereunder,
except  for their own gross  negligence  or willful  misconduct,  (ii) the Agent
shall not be responsible to the Secured Parties for any  statements,  warranties
or  representations  herein,  the Facilities  Agreement or the related documents
referred to therein, the New Facility Letter, the Guarantee, the Mortgage or any
other documents contemplated thereby, (collectively,  the "Financing Documents")
or the value, condition, priority, ownership or sufficiency of the Collateral or
the legality,  validity or enforceability of any of the Financing Documents, nor
shall  the Agent be bound to  ascertain  or  inquire  as to the  performance  or
observance of any of the terms, conditions, covenants or agreements provided for
in the  Financing  Documents,  (iii) the Agent shall not have any  obligation to
determine  whether there has occurred any Event of Default or potential Event of
Default, under any Financing Documents,  and the Agent shall not be charged with
knowledge of the happening of any event of default or potential event of default
unless it shall  have been  notified  thereof  in  writing  by the  Company or a
Secured  Party,  and (iv) the Agent  shall be  entitled to rely upon any notice,
consent,  certificate,  statement or other document believed by it to be genuine
and  correct  and to have been  signed and sent by the proper  person or persons
and, in respect of legal  matters,  upon the opinion of counsel  selected by it.
The Agent may seek  instructions  from the Secured Parties as to the exercise of
its rights, powers and remedies. If the Agent shall be instructed by the Secured
Parties to take any action hereunder,  the Agent may, before taking such action,
require that the Secured  Parties  indemnify the Agent,  in a manner  reasonably
satisfactory to the Agent, for any liability which the Agent may incur in taking
such action.

         (c)  Nothing in this  Security  Agreement,  expressed  or  implied,  is
intended to or shall be so construed as to impose upon the Agent any obligations
in respect of this Security  Agreement or any Collateral except as expressly set
forth herein or therein.  With  respect to the credit  extended by it, the Agent
shall have the same rights and powers under the Financing Documents as any other
Secured Party and may exercise the same as though it were not the Agent, and the
Agent and its affiliates may accept  deposits from,  lend money to and generally
engage in any kind of business with the Company as if it were not the Agent.

         (d) The Secured  Parties  shall  indemnify the Agent (to the extent not
reimbursed by the Company,  but without limiting the obligations of the Company)
ratably in accordance with their respective interests in the Collateral, for any
and  all  liabilities,   obligations,   losses,  damages,  penalties,   actions,
judgments,  suits,  costs,  expenses  or  disbursements  of any kind and  nature
whatsoever which may be imposed on, incurred by or asserted against the Agent in
any way  relating  to or arising  out of this  Security  Agreement  or any other
documents  contemplated by or referred to herein or therein or the  transactions
contemplated  hereby or thereby or the enforcement of any of the terms hereof or
of any such other documents,  provided that no Secured Party shall be liable for
any of the  foregoing  to the extent  they arise  from the gross  negligence  or
willful misconduct of the Agent.

         (e) The Agent may resign (effective upon appointment of a successor) at
any time by  giving  written  notice  thereof  to the  Secured  Parties  and the
Company.  Upon any such  resignation,  the Secured  Parties shall within 30 days
after the Agent shall have given notice of its resignation,  appoint a successor
to the Agent, which decision of the Secured Parties shall be binding upon all of
the  Secured  Parties.  Provided  no  Event  of  Default  has  occurred  and  is
continuing, any successor Agent which is not a party to the Facilities Agreement
shall be approved  by the  Company,  which  approval  shall not be  unreasonably
withheld or delayed.  Upon the acceptance of any  appointment as Agent hereunder
by a successor Agent, such successor Agent shall thereupon succeed to and become
vested with all the rights, powers, privileges and duties of the retiring Agent,
and upon the transfer of the  Collateral  to the successor  Agent,  the retiring
Agent shall be discharged from its duties and obligations  hereunder.  After any
retiring Agent's resignation hereunder as Agent, the provisions of this Security
Agreement  shall inure to its  benefit as to any actions  taken or omitted to be
taken by it while it was Agent under this Security Agreement.

         SECTION 17.  GOVERNING LAW;  WAIVER OF JURY TRIAL;  SEVERABILITY.  THIS
SECURITY  AGREEMENT  SHALL BE GOVERNED BY AND CONSTRUED IN  ACCORDANCE  WITH THE
LAWS OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK  WITHOUT  GIVING  EFFECT TO THE  CONFLICTS OF LAWS
PROVISIONS  THEREOF.  THE PARTIES HERETO  KNOWINGLY,  VOLUNTARILY  AND EXPRESSLY
WAIVE  ALL  RIGHT TO TRIAL BY JURY IN ANY  ACTION,  PROCEEDING  OR  COUNTERCLAIM
ENFORCING OR DEFENDING ANY RIGHTS  ARISING OUT OF OR RELATING TO THIS  AGREEMENT
OR THE  TRANSACTIONS  CONTEMPLATED  HEREBY.  THE COMPANY  ACKNOWLEDGES  THAT THE
PROVISIONS  OF THIS  SECTION  17 HAVE  BEEN  BARGAINED  FOR AND THAT IT HAS BEEN
REPRESENTED BY COUNSEL IN CONNECTION  THEREWITH.  Any provision of this Security
Agreement which is prohibited or unenforceable in any jurisdiction  shall, as to
such  jurisdiction,  be  ineffective  to  the  extent  of  such  prohibition  or
unenforceability  without  invalidating the remaining provisions hereof, and any
such prohibition or unenforceability in any jurisdiction shall not invalidate or
render unenforceable such provision in any other jurisdiction.



                         [signatures begin on next page]


<PAGE>



         IN WITNESS  WHEREOF,  the parties  hereto  have  caused  this  Security
Agreement to be duly executed and delivered as of the date first above written.

                               HUNTINGDON LIFE SCIENCES INC.


                               By:______________________________
                                         Name:
                                         Title:


                               NATIONAL WESTMINSTER BANK PLC,
                                   as Agent


                               By:______________________________
                                    Name:
                                    Title:


<PAGE>



                                    EXHIBIT A

                            Description of Equipment


                  Description       Cost
                                                                   ($000's)

                  HPLC systems        210

                  2 x APOI 365 MS/MS systems  550

                  X-Ray bone densitometer      95

                                                                     ----

                                                                     855
                                                                     ----


<PAGE>



                                    EXHIBIT B

                             Pledged Account Letter




<PAGE>







                                 April 30, 1998



The First National Bank of Maryland
25 South Charles Street, 22nd Floor
Mail Code 101-515
Baltimore, MD 21201

Attention:  Ronald C. Lapointe

         Re:  Huntingdon Life Sciences Inc.

Gentlemen:

         Huntingdon Life Sciences Inc. (the "Company") and National  Westminster
Bank plc hereby give you notice that,  pursuant to a Security Agreement dated as
of April 30, 1998  between the Company  and  National  Westminster  Bank plc, as
agent on behalf of the Secured  Parties  named  therein (in such  capacity,  the
"Agent")(the  "Security  Agreement"),  the  Company  has  granted to the Agent a
security interest in, all of the right, title and interest of the Company in and
to its  demand  deposit  account  with you under  account  number 191 10015 (the
"Pledged Account")  together with all monies,  credit balances and certificates,
instruments and other documents evidencing permitted investments held therein to
secure the payment and  performance  by the Company,  Huntingdon  Life Sciences,
Limited and Huntingdon  Life Sciences Group plc of the Secured  Obligations  (as
defined in the Security  Agreement).  It is not  necessary  that you be familiar
with  the  terms  of  the  Security  Agreement  or  any  related  document.  You
acknowledge the Agent's  security  interest in, and lien on, the Pledged Account
and the monies on deposit therein, granted to the Agent by the Company under the
Security  Agreement.  You agree to act as the  agent  for the Agent to  maintain
possession and control of the Pledged  Account in accordance  with the terms set
forth herein.

         The Company  shall be entitled to use the Pledged  Account,  subject to
your applicable  rules,  until your receipt from the Agent of notice  indicating
that an Event of Default  has  occurred  and is  continuing  under the  Security
Agreement.  The Company hereby agrees that,  upon your receipt from the Agent of
notice  indicating that an Event of Default has occurred and is continuing under
the Security  Agreement,  as set forth herein,  all right, title and interest of
the Company in the  Pledged  Account  shall  immediately  terminate  and you may
refuse to honor any checks, ACH debits, wire transfer instructions, or any other
items which the Company causes to be presented against the Pledged Account after
your receipt of such notice.  Upon written  notice to you from the Agent that an
Event of Default has occurred and is  continuing  under the Security  Agreement,
you shall not permit any  further  disbursements  from the  Pledged  Account and
shall  immediately  transfer all collected  funds in the Pledged  Account to the
Agent, subject to your set-off and banker's liens rights described below.

         You are hereby  authorized to follow your usual  procedure in the event
the Pledged  Account or any checks,  drafts or other orders for payment of money
should  be  or  become  the  subject  of  any  writ,  levy,  order,  attachment,
garnishment or other similar judicial or regulatory  order or process  ("Order")
and neither the  Company  nor the Agent shall  assert any claim  against you for
following your usual procedures in response to any such Order.

         Notwithstanding any other provisions in this Agreement, in the event of
the commencement of a case pursuant to The United States  Bankruptcy Code, filed
by or against the Company,  or in the event of the  commencement  of any similar
case under state law  providing  for the relief of debtors or the  protection of
creditors by or against the Company, you may act as you deem necessary to comply
with all  applicable  provisions  of  governing  statutes  and court  orders and
neither  the Company  nor the Agent  shall  assert any claim  against you for so
doing.

         You  acknowledge   receipt  of  the  foregoing   instructions  and,  in
connection therewith,  hereby confirm that you have not received notice from any
other person of any assignment of or security  interest in the Pledged  Account.
You agree that all notices to be sent to you with respect to the Pledged Account
shall be addressed  as set forth below or such other  address as you may specify
in writing:

                  The First National Bank of Maryland
                  25 South Charles Street, 22nd Floor
                  Mail Code 101-515
                  Baltimore, Maryland 21201
                  Attention:  Ronald C. Lapointe

                  with a copy to:

                  The First National Bank of Maryland
                  25 South Charles Street, 22nd Floor
                  Mail Code 101-850
                  Baltimore, Maryland 21201
                  Attention:  Kenneth F. Krach, Esq.

         You  agree to  provide  duplicate  monthly  statements  to the Agent in
accordance with your usual and customary  procedures  showing all deposits into,
and all  disbursements  made from, the Pledged Account for the period covered by
such monthly statements.  All such duplicate statements shall be provided to the
Agent at the same time such monthly  statements  are provided to the Company and
shall be  addressed  as set forth  below or such other  address as the Agent may
specify by written notice to you:

                    National Westminster Bank plc,
                    as Agent
                    3rd Floor, Juno Court
                    25 Prescot Street
                    London, England E1 8BB
                    Attention:                               

         Each of the Company and the Agent  acknowledges  that you shall have no
obligation,   responsibility   or  liability  to  verify  the  accuracy  of  any
disbursement  request  or  other  instrument  or  writing  delivered  to  you in
connection with the Pledged Account, whether such request is permitted under the
Security  Agreement,  the Company's use of the proceeds thereof or whether there
exists  an  Event of  Default  under  the  Security  Agreement  and that you are
entitled to rely on the  certificates,  notices,  instruments and other writings
presented to you in  connection  therewith.  In no event shall you be liable for
any consequential,  special, punitive or indirect loss or damage which the Agent
or the Company may incur or suffer in connection with this Agreement.

         The invalidity, illegality or unenforceability or any provision of this
Agreement shall not affect the validity,  legality or  enforceability  of any of
the other provisions of this Agreement which shall remain effective.

         THIS AGREEMENT  SHALL BE GOVERNED BY AND CONSTRUED IN ACCORDANCE  WITH,
THE LAWS OF THE STATE OF MARYLAND.  YOU, THE COMPANY AND THE AGENT  SPECIFICALLY
WAIVE THE RIGHT TO TRIAL BY JURY IN RESOLVING ANY CLAIM OR COUNTERCLAIM  RELATED
TO THE PLEDGED ACCOUNT, THIS AGREEMENT OR YOUR PERFORMANCE HEREUNDER.

         The Company hereby  releases you and all of your  directors,  officers,
agents,  attorneys or employees  (collectively,  the "Depository  Bank Parties")
from any claim,  demand,  loss,  or  liability,  the  Company may have or bring,
becoming  due,  arising  under,  out of, as a result of, in  connection  with or
related  to, this  Agreement  or your  performance  and the  performance  of the
Depository Bank Parties hereunder, provided such claim, demand, loss, liability,
or  expense  has not  directly  resulted  from the gross  negligence  or willful
misconduct of you or the Depository  Bank Parties.  The Company hereby agrees to
pay,  indemnify and hold you and the Depository  Bank Parties  harmless from and
against  any  and  all  labilities,  obligations,  losses,  damages,  penalties,
actions,  judgments,  suits,  costs,  expenses or  disbursements  of any kind or
nature  whatsoever  (including,  without  limitation,  legal  fees)  become due,
arising  under,  out of, as a result of, in  connection  with or related to this
Agreement or the performance of you and the Depository  Bank Parties  hereunder,
provided  such claim,  demand,  loss,  liability,  or  expenses is not  directly
resulting  from  the  gross  negligence  or  willful  misconduct  of  you or the
Depository Bank Parties.

         The Agent hereby  releases you and the Depository Bank Parties from any
claim,  demand, loss, or liability,  the Agent may have or bring,  becoming due,
arising  under,  out of, as a result of, in connection  with or related to, this
Agreement or the performance of you and the Depository  Bank Parties  hereunder,
provided  such claim,  demand,  loss,  liability,  or expense  has not  directly
resulted  from  the  gross  negligence  or  willful  misconduct  of  you  or the
Depository Bank Parties. The Agent hereby agrees to fully reimburse you for: (i)
any check, ACH credit or other item which is returned unpaid and the proceeds of
which were received by the Agent  hereunder;  and (ii) any check,  ACH credit or
other item, the proceeds of which were received by the Agent hereunder and which
a Court of competent jurisdiction subsequently holds to have been subject to any
Order,  or orders the  proceeds  returned  to or on behalf of the  Company.  The
Agent's  obligations  of payment  hereunder  shall  survive  the  bankruptcy  or
insolvency of the Company and upon such  bankruptcy or insolvency,  you need not
demand  payment  from the  Company or seek to offset any  amounts in the Pledged
Account or any other accounts the Company maintains with your prior to demanding
payment from the Agent, even if the Company then has sufficient funds in deposit
with you to pay such amounts.

         This  Agreement  may be terminated at any time by you upon fifteen (15)
days written  notice to the Company and the Agent,  after which fifteen (15) day
period all of your  obligations  hereunder shall be terminated,  except that you
shall hold sums then  remaining in the Pledged  Account as a mere bailee pending
(a) your  receipt  of the  mutual  instruction  of the Agent and the  Company to
transfer the same to a successor depository,  or (b) your receipt of an order of
a court of competent jurisdiction  directing transfer the same.  Notwithstanding
the foregoing,  the  indemnifications  and reimbursements  provided herein shall
survive  this  Agreement  and shall  remain in full force and  effect  until all
applicable periods of latches or statute of limitation shall expire on any claim
related hereto.

         This letter agreement may be executed in two or more counterparts, each
of which shall  constitute an original and all of which,  taken together,  shall
constitute one and the same letter agreement.

                          NATIONAL WESTMINSTER BANK PLC



                          By:    
                          Name:
                          Title:



                          HUNTINGDON LIFE SCIENCES INC.



                          By: 
                          Name:
                          Title:

Accepted and Agreed this
30th day of April, 1998


THE FIRST NATIONAL BANK OF MARYLAND


By:                                                       
     Name:
     Title:





</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-1
<SEQUENCE>4
<TEXT>

                                                               CONFORMED COPY

                              DATED 7th August 1998



                       HUNTINGDON LIFE SCIENCES GROUP plc

                                     - and -

                        HUNTINGDON LIFE SCIENCES LIMITED

                                     - and -

                          HUNTINGDON LIFE SCIENCES INC.

                                     - and -

                                    THE BANKS

                                     - and -

                          NATIONAL WESTMINSTER BANK Plc
                                    as Agent









                              FACILITIES AGREEMENT
          (to replace the facilities agreement dated 1st November 1995)
           relating to a revolving loan facility of (pound)24,500,000










                                   WILDE SAPTE
                                       ---

                                     LONDON


<PAGE>




                                TABLE OF CONTENTS


Clause        Heading                                            Page Number

1.            DEFINITIONS AND INTERPRETATION................................1
1.1           Definitions...................................................1
1.2           Clause Headings..............................................10
1.3           Interpretation...............................................10

2.            CONDITIONS PRECEDENT.........................................11

3.            FACILITIES...................................................11
3.1           Facilities...................................................11
3.2           Obligations Several..........................................12
3.3           Rights Several...............................................12

4.            PURPOSE......................................................12
4.1           Purpose of the Revolving Credit Facility.....................12
4.2           Undertaking by the Parent....................................12
4.3           No Liability.................................................12

5.            DRAWDOWN AND PARTICIPATIONS..................................13
5.1           Drawdown under the Revolving Credit Facility.................13
5.2           Drawdown.....................................................13
5.3           Participations and Payments..................................14
5.4           Repayment of Existing Facility...............................14
5.5           Confirmation.................................................14

6.            INTEREST.....................................................15
6.1           Interest Rate................................................15
6.2           Interest Periods.............................................15
6.3           Default Interest.............................................15
6.4           Calculation and Payment of Interest..........................16
6.5           Agent's Determination........................................16
6.6           Adjustment to Margin.........................................16

7.            REPAYMENT AND REDUCTION......................................16
7.1           Repayment....................................................16
7.2           Prepayment...................................................17
7.3           Mandatory Prepayment on Wilmslow Disposal
              and other Disposals..........................................17
7.4           Cancellation.................................................17

8.            CHANGES IN CIRCUMSTANCES.....................................18
8.1           Illegality...................................................18
8.2           Increased Costs..............................................18
8.3           Market disruption............................................19
8.4           Mitigation...................................................21
8.5           Certificates.................................................21

9.            PAYMENTS.....................................................21
9.1           Time and Place...............................................21
9.2           Business Days................................................22
9.3           Indemnity and Breakage Costs.................................22
9.4           Grossing-up..................................................22
9.5           Prepayment Right.............................................24
9.6           Accounts as Evidence.........................................24
9.7           Currency of Account..........................................25
9.8           Borrowers' Payments..........................................25
9.9           Banks' Payments..............................................25
9.10          Appropriation................................................25

10.           SECURITY.....................................................26

11.           REPRESENTATIONS AND WARRANTIES...............................26
11.1          Acknowledgement of Reliance..................................26
11.2          Representations and Warranties...............................26
11.3          Repetition...................................................29

12.           UNDERTAKINGS.................................................29
12.1          Information Undertakings.....................................29
12.2          Positive Covenants...........................................31
12.3          Negative Covenants...........................................32

13.           DEFAULT......................................................34
13.1          Defaults.....................................................34
13.2          Acceleration etc.............................................36
13.3          Acceleration of Existing Facilities, Existing Ancillary
              Facilities or Bridging Facility  ........................    37
13.4          Appointment of receiver etc..................................37

14.           SET-OFF AND PRO RATA PAYMENTS AND DEPOSIT ACCOUNT............37
14.1          Set-Off......................................................37
14.2          Deposit Account..............................................37
14.3          Pro Rata Sharing.............................................38

15.           THE AGENT AND THE BANKS......................................39
15.1          Appointment and Duties.......................................39
15.2          Payments and Information Received............................39
15.3          Defaults.....................................................40
15.4          Assumptions..................................................40
15.5          Legal Proceedings............................................40
15.6          No Liability.................................................40
15.7          Credit Decisions.............................................40
15.8          Advisers.....................................................41
15.9          Relationship with Banks......................................41
15.10         Agent's position as a Bank...................................41
15.11         Indemnity....................................................41
15.12         Resignation..................................................42
15.13         Change of Office.............................................42
15.14         Scope of Duties..............................................42
15.15         Consents.....................................................42
15.16         Evidence.....................................................43
15.17         Security.....................................................43

16.           FEES AND EXPENSES............................................43
16.1          Expenses.....................................................43
16.2          Agency Fees..................................................44
16.3          Non-Utilisation Fee..........................................44
16.4          Participation Fee............................................44
16.5          Documentary Taxes Indemnity..................................44
16.6          VAT..........................................................44

17.           SEVERABILITY, WAIVERS, REMEDIES CUMULATIVE...................45
17.1          Severance....................................................45
17.2          Waivers......................................................45

18.           NOTICES......................................................45
18.1          Method.......................................................45
18.2          Delivery.....................................................45
18.3          Addresses....................................................46
18.4          Deemed Receipt...............................................46
18.5          Notices to the Banks.........................................46

19.           ASSIGNMENTS AND TRANSFERS....................................46
19.1          Benefit of Agreement.........................................46
19.2          Assignments and Transfers by the Borrowers...................47
19.3          Assignments and Transfers by Banks...........................47
19.4          Disclosure of Information....................................48

20.           CURRENCY INDEMNITY...........................................48
20.2          General......................................................49

21.           PRIORITIES...................................................49
21.1          Priority Order...............................................49
21.2          Co-Operation.................................................49

22.           ANNOUNCEMENTS................................................49

23.           CONFLICT.....................................................50

24.           LAW AND JURISDICTION.........................................50
24.1          Law..........................................................50
24.2          Jurisdiction.................................................50

SCHEDULE 1 - THE BANKS.....................................................52
SCHEDULE 2 - DRAWDOWN NOTICE...............................................53
SCHEDULE 3 - MANDATORY COST RATE...........................................54
SCHEDULE 4 - FORM OF TRANSFER CERTIFICATE..................................56
SCHEDULE 5 - EXISTING SECURITY.............................................60
SCHEDULE 6 - CONDITIONS PRECEDENT..........................................61
SCHEDULE 7 - PARTICIPATION IN RISK SHARING.................................62



<PAGE>


                                            
THIS AGREEMENT is made on the 7th day of August 1998

BY:


(1) HUNTINGDON LIFE SCIENCES GROUP Plc, a company incorporated under the laws of
    England and Wales with registered number 502370 having its registered office
    at Woolley Road, Alconbury, Huntingdon, Cambridgeshire PE18 6ES (the
    "Parent");

(2) HUNTINGDON LIFE sciences LIMITED, a company  incorporated under the
    laws of England and Wales with  registered  number  01815730 having
    its  registered  office at  Woolley  Road,  Alconbury,  Huntingdon,
    Cambridgeshire PE18 6ES ("HLSL");

(3) HUNTINGDON  LIFE SCIENCES  INC., a company  incorporated  under the
    laws of the State of Delaware,  USA having its registered office at
    9 East Loockerman Street,  City of Dover,  County of Kent, State of
    Delaware, United States of America ("HLS");

(4) THE BANKS as defined below; and

(5) NATIONAL  WESTMINSTER  BANK  Plc,  of 3rd  Floor,  Juno  Court,  24
    Prescott  Street,  London E1 8BB as the Agent (as such term is more
    particularly defined below).


NOW IT IS HEREBY AGREED as follows:


1.           DEFINITIONS AND INTERPRETATION

1.1          Definitions

             In  this  Agreement  the  following   expressions  shall  have  the
             following meanings (except where the context otherwise requires):

             "Accounts"  means  the  audited   consolidated  annual  report  and
             accounts  of the  Parent  and its  Subsidiaries  together  with the
             relative directors' report and auditors' report.

             "Agent"  means  National  Westminster  Bank Plc in its  capacity as
             agent and trustee for the Banks and each successor  Agent appointed
             from time to time under Clause 15.12.

             "Auditors"  means  Arthur  Andersen or such other firm of chartered
             accountants of  internationally  recognised  standing as shall have
             been appointed as auditors of the Parent and its Subsidiaries.

             "Available Commitment" means, in relation to a Bank, its Commitment
             less its Participation in all outstanding Revolving Advances.

             "Available Revolving Credit Facility" means the aggregate of the
             Available Commitments of the Banks.

             "Banks" means each of the banks and financial  institutions  listed
             in Schedule 1, their respective successors and each Bank Transferee
             and "Bank" shall be construed accordingly.

             "Bank Transferee" has the meaning attributed thereto in Clause 19.

             "Borrowers"  means  all  and  each  of the  Parent,  HLSL,  HLS and
             "Borrower" shall be construed accordingly as the context requires.

             "Bridging  Facility" means a bridging facility of  (pound)1,000,000
             being  provided  by  NatWest  pursuant  to the  terms  of a  letter
             addressed to the Borrowers of even date herewith.

             "Business  Day"  means a day on which  banks and  foreign  exchange
             markets are open in London for the  transaction  of business of the
             nature required by this Agreement.

             "Capital   Expenditure"  has  the  meaning  given  thereto  by  the
             established  accounting  policies  of the Group in  relation to its
             cashflow statements as at the date hereof.

             "Ciba Geigy Agreement" means the agreement referred to in paragraph
             (d) of the  definition of Permitted  Indebtedness  and the security
             relating thereto.

             "Certified Copy" means, in relation to any document, a copy of such
             document  bearing the endorsement  "Certified a true,  complete and
             accurate copy of the original, which has not been amended otherwise
             than by a document,  a Certified Copy of which is attached  hereto"
             signed and dated by a duly  authorised  officer  of the  company in
             question.

             "Change" means the introduction, implementation, repeal, withdrawal
             or change in, or in the  interpretation  or application of, (a) any
             law,  regulation,  practice or  concession,  or (b) any  directive,
             requirement,  request or guidance  (whether or not having the force
             of law but if not  having  the  force  of law,  one  which  applies
             generally to a class or category of financial institutions of which
             that Bank forms  part and  compliance  with which is in  accordance
             with the general  practice of those financial  institutions) of the
             European Community, any central bank including the European Central
             Bank, or any other fiscal, monetary,  regulatory or other authority
             which has jurisdiction  over that Bank and which in any case is not
             known as at the date of this Agreement.

             "Charging  Group"  means each of the  Borrowers  and each and every
             member of the Group that has executed a Security Document.

             "Circular" means the circular to be issued by the Parent relating
             to the Placings.

             "Comerica" means Comerica Bank.

             "Commitment"  means, in relation to each Bank, the principal amount
             described  as such set opposite its name in Schedule 1 or under the
             "Amount of Commitment  Transferred" in the Schedule to any relevant
             Transfer  Certificate,  in each case as reduced or cancelled  under
             the terms of this Agreement.

             "Commitment   Percentage"  means  in  relation  to  each  Bank  the
              percentage specified against its name in Column 3 of Schedule 1.

             "Commitment  Period"  means the period  starting on the date hereof
             and ending on 30th August 2000.

             "Company  System"  means each item of  equipment  and the  software
             programmes  used by the Group in the course of its business,  which
             is material for the purposes of the Group's business.

             "Conditions Precedent" means each of the conditions set out in
             Schedule 6 and referred to in Clause 2.

             "Default" means any of the events specified in Clause 13.1.

             "Default Occurrence" means any event,  occurrence or omission which
             with the passing of time,  giving of notice or  satisfaction of any
             other condition would be a Default.

             "Deposit  Account"  means the  deposit  account  in the name of the
             Parent with the Agent into which the Transaction Proceeds are to be
             paid.

             "DKB" means Dresdner Kleinwort Benson.

             "Disposal" means a sale,  transfer or other disposal  (including by
             way of lease or loan) by a person of all or part of its business or
             assets.

             "Disposal  Proceeds" means, in respect of a Disposal by a member of
             the Group, the gross  consideration  received by the Group for that
             Disposal less all costs and expenses directly  incurred  (including
             any VAT chargeable) in respect of that Disposal.

             "Dormant Subsidiary" means, at any given time, a company within the
             Group which is at such time  dormant  within the meaning of section
             250(3) of the Companies Act 1985 the value of whose assets does not
             exceed in aggregate (pound)5,000.

             "Drawdown  Date" means any date,  being a Business  Day, on which a
             Revolving  Advance is made, or is proposed to be made pursuant to a
             Drawdown Notice.

             "Drawdown Notice" means a notice substantially in the form set out
             in Schedule 2.

             "Encumbrance"  means any  mortgage,  charge,  assignment  by way of
             security, pledge, hypothecation,  lien, right of set-off, retention
             of title  provision,  trust or flawed  asset  arrangement  (for the
             purpose of, or which has the effect of,  granting  security) or any
             other security  interest of any kind whatsoever,  or any agreement,
             whether  conditional  or otherwise,  to create any of the same, but
             excluding any  agreement to sell or otherwise  dispose of any asset
             on terms  whereby such asset is or may be leased to or  re-acquired
             or acquired by any Group Company.

             "Environment"  means all or any of the following  media;  air, land
             (including  buildings and any other  structures or erections in, on
             or under it and any soil and  anything  below the surface of land),
             land  covered  with  water and water  (including  sea,  ground  and
             surface water).

             "Environmental  Claim" means any written notice from any regulatory
             authority or government agency, alleging any breach,  contravention
             or  violation of any  Environmental  Law by any member of the Group
             (other than the TMG  Companies)  or the  existence of any liability
             arising from any such breach, contravention or violation including,
             without limitation, liability to conduct, pay for or for damages in
             respect of any clean-up, remediation, administrative cost or charge
             or expense,  damage to the  Environment  or any  natural  resource,
             property loss or damage,  personal injury or any penalty  attaching
             or  relating  to the  presence,  emission,  release  or leak of any
             Hazardous Material in or to the Environment.

             "Environmental  Law" means all statutes,  treaties and conventions,
             directives  and  regulations  whether  of  a  criminal,   civil  or
             administrative  nature, and the rules of Common Law, relating to or
             concerning:

             (a)    pollution or contamination of the Environment;

             (b)    harm, whether actual or potential to ecological systems;

             (c)    the generation, manufacture,  processing, distribution,
                    use (including abuse),  treatment,  storage,  disposal,
                    transport or handling of Hazardous Materials; and

             (d)    the  emission,  leak,  release  or  discharge  into the
                    Environment  of noise,  vibration,  dust,  fumes,  gas,
                    odours, smoke, steam, effluvia,  heat, light, radiation
                    (of any kind), infection,  electricity or any Hazardous
                    Material   and  any   matter   or  thing   capable   of
                    constituting  a nuisance or an  actionable  tort of any
                    kind in respect of such matters.

             "Existing  Ancillary  Facilities"  means the  Terminable  Indemnity
             Facility and the Forex  Facility  made  available to the Parent and
             HLSL  pursuant to a facility  letter dated 7th  September  1997 (as
             amended).

             "Existing  Facilities" means the sterling Revolving Credit Facility
             of  (pound)19,500,000  made available to the Borrowers by the Banks
             pursuant to the  facilities  agreement  dated 1st November 1995 and
             the  overdraft  facility  of  (pound)5,000,000  made  available  by
             National  Westminster  Bank  Plc  as  overdraft  bank  pursuant  to
             facility  letters  dated 26th February 1998 and 17th March 1998 (as
             varied and amended from time to time).

             "Existing Facilities  Outstandings" means at any time the aggregate
             of all amounts outstanding under the Existing Facilities.

             "Finance  Lease"  means any  lease,  hire  agreement,  credit  sale
             agreement,  purchase  agreement,   conditional  sale  agreement  or
             instalment  sale and purchase  agreement which should be treated in
             accordance  with SSAP 21 (or any  successor  thereto)  as a finance
             lease or in the same way as a finance lease.

             "Final Repayment Date" means 31st August 2000.

             "Financial  Year" in relation to a company has the meaning ascribed
             to such expression by section 223 of the Companies Act 1985.

             "Financing   Documents"  means  this  Agreement  and  the  Security
             provided that any reference to the expression "Financing Documents"
             contained in the Security shall be construed as a reference to this
             Agreement and the Security.

             "First  Drawdown  Date"  means the date on which the  Parent  first
             draws down a Revolving Advance under this Agreement.

             "FNBM" means The First National Bank of Maryland.

             "GAAP" means,  means  accounting  principles,  concepts,  bases and
             policies generally adopted and accepted in England.

             "Group"  means the Parent and each  Subsidiary  of the Parent  from
             time to time during the Security  Period and Group Company shall be
             construed accordingly.

             "Hazardous  Materials"  means any  element  or  substance,  whether
             natural or artificial, and whether consisting of gas, liquid, solid
             or vapour,  whether on its own or in any combination with any other
             element  or  substance,  which is  listed,  identified,  defined or
             determined by any Environmental Law to be harmful to mankind or any
             living organism or damaging to the Environment.

             "Headroom"  means,  with respect to the Revolving  Credit Facility,
             the difference (if any) between the Revolving Credit Facility Limit
             and the Revolving Loan at any time  (including,  in calculating the
             amount of the Revolving  Loan on any Interest  Date,  any Revolving
             Advance  proposed to be drawn on such Interest Date for the purpose
             of  repaying  in whole or in part  one or more  maturing  Revolving
             Advances in aggregate in the same or a greater amount).

             "Indebtedness"  means , in relation to any person,  its  obligation
             (whether present or future,  actual or contingent,  as principal or
             surety) for the payment or repayment  of money  (whether in respect
             of interest, principal or otherwise) incurred in respect of:

             (a)         moneys borrowed or raised;

             (b)         any bond, note, loan stock, debenture or similar
                         instrument;

             (c)         any acceptance credit, bill discounting, note purchase,
                         factoring or documentary credit facility;

             (d)         any Finance Lease;

             (e)         any bond,  stand-by  letter of credit or other  similar
                         instrument  issued in connection with any  indebtedness
                         of the type referred to in any other  paragraph of this
                         definition;

             (f)         any  interest  rate or currency  swap  agreement or any
                         other hedging or  derivatives  instrument or agreement;
                         or

             (g)         any guarantee,  indemnity or similar  insurance against
                         financial  loss given in respect of the  obligation  of
                         any person in respect of any  indebtedness  of the type
                         referred to in this definition.

             For the  avoidance of doubt  Indebtedness  does not include  credit
             incurred in the ordinary course of trading.

             "Investor Placing" means the raising by the Parent of new equity by
             means of a subscription by the Investors for  120,000,000  ordinary
             shares  of  5  pence   each  in  the   Parent  in  order  to  raise
             (pound)15,000,000 (gross).

             "Investor  Placing  Agreement"  means  the  agreement  of even date
             herewith  between  the  Parent,  the  directors  of the  Parent and
             certain investors documenting the Investor Placing.

             "Investors"  means the persons defined as the  "Subcribers" for the
             purposes of the Investor  Placing  Agreement or such other  persons
             who may replace or join the  foregoing  as parties to the  Investor
             Placing Agreement.

             "Interest Date" means the last day of an Interest Period.

             "Interest  Period" means each period  determined in accordance with
             Clause 6.2 for the purpose of  calculating  interest  on  Revolving
             Advances or overdue amounts respectively.

             "Lending  Office"  means,  in  relation  to each Bank,  the lending
             office  details of which are set out in Schedule 1 of the  relative
             Transfer Certificate or such other lending office through which its
             Commitment is maintained  and through  which its  Participation  is
             made and maintained under this Agreement.

             "LIBOR" means, in relation to a Revolving  Advance or other sum and
             in relation to a particular Interest Period:

             (a)         the rate of the offered quotation for Sterling deposits
                         for a period  comparable to that Interest  Period which
                         appears on the display designated as "Page 3750" on the
                         Telerate  Service (or such other page or service as may
                         replace  it  for  the  purpose  of  displaying   London
                         interbank  offered  rates of prime  banks for  Sterling
                         deposits)  at or about  11.00 a.m.  on the first day of
                         that Interest Period; or

             (b)         if no such  display  rate is  available,  the  rate per
                         annum  (rounded  upwards to four  decimal  places)  (as
                         quoted to the Agent at its  request)  at which  NatWest
                         was   offering   deposits  in  Sterling  in  an  amount
                         comparable with that Revolving Advance or other sum, as
                         the  case  may  be,  to  leading  banks  in the  London
                         interbank  market for a period  equal to that  Interest
                         Period at or about  11.00 a.m. on the first day of that
                         Interest Period.

             "Majority Banks" means a group of Banks whose Commitments comprise
             at least 662/3 per cent. of the Total Commitments.

             "Mandatory Cost Rate" means, the rate determined in accordance with
             Schedule 3.

             "Margin" means, (i) 1.75 per cent. per annum in respect of drawings
             up to  (pound)19,500,000  in aggregate  under the Revolving  Credit
             Facility;  and (ii) subject to Clause 6.6, 1.0 per cent.  per annum
             in respect of that portion of the drawings which for the time being
             are in excess of (pound)19,500,000 in aggregate under the Revolving
             Credit Facility.

             "Material  Adverse  Effect" means a material  adverse effect on the
             business,  assets or  financial  condition  of the Group taken as a
             whole which affects the ability of the  Borrowers  taken as a whole
             to perform their payment obligations under the Financing Documents.

             "NatWest  Obligations" means (pound)100,000 of the monies from time
             to time owing to NatWest by the  Parent  under the  Revolving  Loan
             together  with  all  moneys  owing to  NatWest  in  respect  of the
             Existing Ancillary Facilities.

             "NatWest" means National Westminster Bank Plc.

             "Net  Proceeds"  means in relation to the Security the net proceeds
             of sale or other  realisation of the assets subject to the Security
             after  discharge  of all  direct  costs  incurred  in such  sale or
             realisation,  the discharge of any prior ranking  claims and, where
             appropriate,  all costs, charges, fees and expenses of any receiver
             or similar officer appointed pursuant to the Security.

             "New  Jersey  Mortgage"  means  the  mortgage  over the New  Jersey
             Property dated 16th January 1998.

             "New Jersey  Property"  means the land and  buildings  owned by HLS
             known as Mettlers Road, East Millstone,  NJ 08877, United States of
             America as recorded  with the County  Clerk of  Somerset  County as
             Lots 11.01,  11.02 and 11.03 in Block 512,  Township  of  Franklyn,
             Somerset County, New Jersey.

             "Non-Material Subsidiary" means at any given time, a company within
             the Group the value of whose assets does not exceed (pound)200,000.

             "Outstandings"  means in  relation  to each Bank,  at the time of a
             distribution of the Net Proceeds,  the amount owing to that Bank by
             all the Borrowers  under this  Agreement in respect of the Priority
             Obligations.

             "Participation"  means,  in  relation  to a  Bank  and a  Revolving
             Advance,  the part of such Revolving Advance or the Revolving Loan,
             as the case may be, made  available or to be made available by such
             Bank and thereafter the part of such Advance or the Revolving Loan,
             as the case may be, owing to such Bank from time to time.

             "Participation  Percentage"  means, at any time, in relation to the
             Banks the percentage of their participation in the risk incurred by
             the  Overdraft  Bank  under the  Overdraft  Facility  as set out in
             Schedule 7 of this Agreement.

             "Permitted Encumbrance" means:

             (i)      any Encumbrance constituted or evidenced by any of the
                      Financing Documents;

             (ii)     any rights of set-off or liens arising in the ordinary
                      course of business;

             (iii)    any  arrangements  for  retention  of  title  to  goods
                      arising in the ordinary course of business;

             (iv)     Encumbrances existing as at the date hereof;

             (v)      any  Encumbrance  which the  Banks  have at any time in
                      writing agreed shall be a Permitted Encumbrance;

             (vi)     any  Encumbrance  over goods or  documents  of title to
                      goods or  negotiable  instruments  in  respect  thereof
                      created in support of any documentary  credit or letter
                      of credit transaction  entered into by a company within
                      the  Group  in  the  ordinary  course  of  its  trading
                      activities;

             (vii)    in the case of a company becoming a member of the Group
                      after the date hereof, any Encumbrance existing over the
                      assets of that member of the Group at the time it became
                      a member of the Group provided that (a)the principal
                      amount secured thereby is not increased, (b) such
                      Encumbrance is not created in contemplation of or in
                      connection with its becoming a member of the Group,
                      (c) such Encumbrance is discharged within 180 days after
                      such company becoming a member of the Group, and (d) no
                      other member of the Group has provided any guarantee,
                      support or other financial accommodation in relation to
                      the amount secured thereby;

             (viii)   any  Encumbrance  existing over any assets  acquired by
                      any  member  of the  Group at the time of  acquisition,
                      provided that (a) the principal  amount secured thereby
                      is not increased,  (b) such  Encumbrance is not created
                      in   contemplation   of  or  in  connection   with  the
                      acquisition  of such  asset by any member of the Group,
                      and (c) such Encumbrance is discharged  within 180 days
                      after  the  asset is  required  by such  member  of the
                      Group;

             (ix)     any Encumbrance  arising out of the right of a clearing
                      bank to  combine  or  consolidate  any  accounts  or to
                      set-off or  transfer  any sum or sums  standing  to the
                      credit of any account in or towards satisfaction of any
                      present or future  liabilities  to that clearing  bank;
                      and

             (x)      in the case of HLS, Encumbrances for taxes, assessments
                      or governmental charges or levies not yet delinquent or
                      which are being  actively  contested  in good  faith by
                      appropriate   proceedings  and,  where  the  obligation
                      secured  by such  Encumbrance  is not more than 60 days
                      overdue,  Encumbrances placed on the property of HLS or
                      any  Subsidiary  of it securing  claims of mechanics or
                      suppliers arising in the ordinary course of business.

             "Permitted Indebtedness" means:

             (a)   Indebtedness under any Financing Document;

             (b)   Indebtedness existing at the date of this Agreement of the 
                   Group Companies;

             (c)   Indebtedness of any Group Company to another Group Company;

             (d)   without  limitation  to (b) above,  Indebtedness  owing
                   under an asset purchase agreement dated 14th March 1997
                   between Ciba Geigy plc, the Parent and HLSL;

             (e)   Indebtedness  incurred  with the  consent  of the Agent
                   acting on the instructions of the Majority Banks;

             (f)   Indebtedness  under  Finance  Leases  in  an  aggregate
                   principal  amount  of  up  to  (pound)750,000  in  each
                   Financial Year of the Group; and

             (g)   any  Indebtedness  which  refinances  any  Indebtedness
                   referred to in (a), (b), (c), (d), (e) or (f) up to the
                   amount then outstanding above.

             "Placings" mean the Investor Placing and the Shareholder Placing.

             "Priority  Obligations"  means all moneys  owing,  obligations and
             other liabilities of the Borrowers to the Banks and the Agent under
             the Revolving Credit Facility.

             "Qualifying  Bank" means an institution which is a bank as defined
             by section 840A of the Income and Corporation Taxes Act 1988.

             "Revolving  Advance" means each revolving  advance drawn down under
             the  Revolving  Credit  Facility  or,  as  the  case  may  be, the
             outstanding principal amount of each such revolving advance.

             "Revolving Credit Facility" means the Revolving Credit Facility
             referred to in Clause 3.1.1.

             "Revolving Credit Facility Limit" means, subject to Clauses 7.3 and
             7.4, (pound)24,500,000.

             "Revolving Loan" means, at any time, the aggregate of all Revolving
             Advances outstanding at that time.

             "Security"  means the documents  listed in Schedule 5 together with
             any other guarantees and documents  creating  security executed and
             delivered  on or before or after the date  hereof by any  member of
             the Group securing the  obligations  and  liabilities of any of the
             Borrowers and the other  members of the Group under this  Agreement
             and the Existing Ancillary Facilities (and Security Documents shall
             be defined accordingly).

             "Security  Period" means the period starting on the date hereof and
             ending on the date on which all of the  obligations and liabilities
             of the  members of the Group under each of this  Agreement  and the
             Security are discharged in full and none of the Agent and the Banks
             has any continuing  obligation in relation to the Revolving  Credit
             Facility and the Existing Ancillary Facilities.

             "Shareholder Placing" means the raising by the Parent of new equity
             by means of a placing and open offer of 57,003,431  ordinary shares
             of 5 pence  each in the  Parent  in order to  raise  not less  than
             (pound)7,000,000 (gross).

             "Shareholder  Placing  Agreement"  means the agreement of even date
             herewith  between the Parent and DKB  relating  to the  Shareholder
             Placing.

             "Shareholders" means certain institutional shareholders of the
             Parent.

             "SSAP"  together  with a number  means the  statement  of  standard
             accounting   practice   issued  by  the   Institute   of  Chartered
             Accountants  for application in England and Wales and identified by
             reference to that number.

             "Sterling",  "Pounds" and "(pound)"  means the lawful  currency for
             the time being of the United Kingdom.

             "Subsidiary"  has the meaning  ascribed to it by section 736 of the
             Companies   Act  1985  and   "Subsidiaries"   shall  be   construed
             accordingly.

             "Tax"  includes  all present and future  taxes,  charges,  imposts,
             duties, levies, deductions, withholdings of any kind whatsoever, or
             any amount  payable on  account  of or as  security  for any of the
             foregoing,  by  whomsoever  on  whomsoever  and  wherever  imposed,
             levied,   collected,   withheld  or  accrued,   together  with  any
             penalties,   additions,  fines,  surcharges  or  interest  relating
             thereto and "Taxes" and "Taxation" shall be construed accordingly.

             "TMG  Companies"  means,  but  only for so long as  Travers  Morgan
             Limited,  (a  company   incorporated  in  England  and  Wales  with
             registered number 2232567) is in administration or liquidation, all
             and each of Travers Morgan Limited, and each of its Subsidiaries as
             at the date of this  Agreement and "TMG Company" shall be construed
             accordingly.

             "Total Commitments" means the aggregate of the Banks' Commitments.

             "Transaction  Proceeds"  means the monies (net of costs) raised by
             the Parent pursuant to the Placings.

             "Transfer Certificate" means a transfer certificate in
             substantially the form set out in Schedule 4.

             "VAT" means value added tax as provided  for in the Value Added Tax
             Act  1994  and   legislation   (whether   delegated  or  otherwise)
             supplemental to that Act or in any primary or secondary legislation
             promulgated  by the  European  Community  or any  official  body or
             agency of the European Community, and any tax similar or equivalent
             to value  added tax  imposed by any  country  other than the United
             Kingdom  and any  similar  Tax or any  turnover  Tax  replacing  or
             introduced in addition to any of the same.

             "Wilmslow Disposal" means the Disposal of the Wilmslow Property.

             "Wilmslow  Property" means the property situated at Wilmslow, near
             Manchester and owned by HLSL.

1.2          Clause Headings

             Clause headings are for convenience of reference only and shall not
             affect the construction of this Agreement.

1.3          Interpretation

             In this Agreement, unless the context otherwise requires:

             (a)         references to this Agreement include the Schedules;

             (b)         references to Clauses and Schedules are to be construed
                         as references to the Clauses of, and Schedules to, this
                         Agreement as amended from time to time;

             (c)         references  to any person  shall be  construed so as to
                         include that person's permitted assigns, transferees or
                         successors in title;

             (d)         references  to  statutes  and other  legislation  shall
                         include all re-enactments and amendments thereof;

             (e)         references to (or to any specified  provisions  of) any
                         Financing  Document  or any  other  document  shall  be
                         construed as  references  to such  Financing  Document,
                         that  provision or that  document as amended or novated
                         or supplemented, as the case may be, from time to time;

             (f)         references  to a document  being in the  "agreed  form"
                         means that  document  the form and content of which has
                         been  approved by the Agent and which has been endorsed
                         on it the words "in an agreed  form" and is  initialled
                         on behalf of or by the Agent and the Parent;

             (g)         accounting terms shall be construed so as to be
                         consistent with GAAP;

             (h)         references to the singular shall include the plural and
                         vice  versa and  references  by way of male,  female or
                         neuter pronoun shall include references to all genders;

             (i)         the  words  "including"  and "in  particular"  shall be
                         construed as being by way of  illustration  or emphasis
                         only and shall not be construed as, nor shall they take
                         effect as,  limiting the  generality  of any  foregoing
                         words;

             (j)         unless  otherwise  stated  herein the  obligations  and
                         liabilities  of the Borrowers  herein are the joint and
                         several  obligations  and liabilities of the Borrowers;
                         and

             (k)         references to working capital  purposes or requirements
                         or similar expressions shall include without limitation
                         Capital Expenditure and the payment or repayment of any
                         other amount payable under the Financing Documents, the
                         Bridging Facility, the Existing Facilities
                         and the Existing Ancillary Facilities.


2.           CONDITIONS PRECEDENT

2.1          Notwithstanding any other term of this Agreement, none of the Agent
             and the Banks shall be under any  obligation  to make the Revolving
             Credit  Facility  available to the  Borrowers  unless the Agent has
             notified  the  Parent and the Banks  that it has  received  all the
             documents and items listed in Schedule 6.

2.2          The Agent on  receipt  of all the  documents  listed in  Schedule 6
             shall as soon as practicable acknowledge to the Borrowers that such
             documents  have been  received  and,  accordingly,  subject  to the
             satisfaction of the Conditions  Precedent  referred to in paragraph
             (ii),  (iii) and (iv) of Schedule 6 and the  applicable  conditions
             precedent  set out in Clause  5.2.1(b),  (c) and (d), the Revolving
             Credit Facility is available for drawing.


3.           FACILITIES

3.1.         Facilities

3.1.1        Subject to the terms and  conditions  of this  Agreement  the Banks
             agree to make available to the Parent, a sterling  revolving credit
             facility in the maximum principal amount of (pound)24,500,000.

3.1.2        For  the  avoidance  of  doubt,   it  is  hereby   declared   that,
             notwithstanding any other provision of this Agreement:

             (i)         the aggregate of the Revolving Advances shall not, at
                         any time, exceed the Total Commitments; and

             (ii) no Bank shall be obliged to lend more than its Commitment.

3.2          Obligations Several

3.2.1        The obligations of the Banks under this Agreement are several.

3.2.2        The failure of a Bank to carry out its obligations  hereunder shall
             not  relieve  any  other  party  hereto  of any of its  obligations
             hereunder.

3.2.3        None of the Banks shall be responsible for the obligations of any
             others hereunder.

3.3          Rights Several

3.3.1        Without  prejudice to the provisions of this Agreement  relating to
             or requiring  action by all or any of the Banks, the rights of each
             of the Banks and the Agent are  several and all  amounts  due,  and
             obligations  owed,  to each of them are  separate  and  independent
             debts or, as the case may be, obligations.

3.3.2        Each Bank and the Agent  may,  except as  otherwise  stated in this
             Agreement, separately enforce its rights hereunder.

3.4          Existing Ancillary Facilities

             NatWest  agrees to  continue  to  provide  the  Existing  Ancillary
             Facilities on the same terms and conditions  which apply thereto on
             the date  hereof  save  that the  same  may  only be  withdrawn  or
             cancelled  or  required  to  be  repaid  in  accordance   with  the
             provisions of Clause 13.2.


4.           PURPOSE

4.1          Purpose of the Revolving Credit Facility

             The proceeds of the Revolving Credit Facility shall be used:

             (i)  to repay the Existing Facilities Outstandings; and thereafter

             (ii) for the general working capital purposes of the Group.

4.2          Undertaking by the Parent

             The  Parent  undertakes  that it  will  use  the  Revolving  Credit
             Facility only as permitted by this Clause 4.

4.3          No Liability

             Neither the Agent nor any of Banks shall be concerned as to the use
             or application of the proceeds of the Revolving Credit Facility.


5.           DRAWDOWN AND PARTICIPATIONS

5.1          Drawdown under the Revolving Credit Facility

5.1.1        Revolving  Advances  shall be made to the Parent at any time during
             the  Commitment  Period when  requested by the Parent by means of a
             Drawdown  Notice in  accordance  with  Clause  5.3. At the close of
             business on the last day of the Commitment  Period,  the Commitment
             of each Bank shall be automatically cancelled.

5.1.2        Revolving  Advances  shall be drawn in Sterling  and shall be in an
             amount of at least (pound)1,000,000 and be an integral multiple of,
             (pound)500,000,  or, if less, the amount of the Available Revolving
             Credit Facility.

5.1.3        No more than 8 Revolving Advances shall be outstanding at any
             one time.

5.1.4        No Revolving  Advance shall be made if the making of that Revolving
             Advance  would result in the  Revolving  Loan  exceeding  the Total
             Commitments.

5.2          Drawdown

5.2.1        Whenever the Parent wishes a Revolving Advance to be made, it shall
             give a Drawdown  Notice to the Agent to be received  not later than
             11.00  a.m.  (London  time) two (2)  Business  Days  prior to,  the
             relative  Drawdown  Date PROVIDED  THAT  notwithstanding  any other
             provision of this Agreement  (save for Clause  5.2.5),  no Drawdown
             Notice  may be served in  respect  of a  Revolving  Advance  and no
             Revolving Advance will be made:

             (a)   unless the Conditions Precedent shall have been satisfied; or

             (b)   if a Default or, a Default Occurrence, has occurred and
                   is  continuing  unremedied  and  unwaived  by the Agent
                   acting on the  instructions of the Majority Banks or if
                   a Default  would occur on the making of such  Revolving
                   Advance; or

             (c)   unless the  representations and warranties deemed to be
                   repeated  pursuant to Clause 11.3 are, or will be, true
                   and  accurate in all  material  respects on the date on
                   which the relative Drawdown Notice is served and on the
                   relative Drawdown Date; or

             (d)   in respect  of a  Revolving  Advance,  if the making of
                   such  Revolving  Advance  would cause the amount of the
                   Revolving Loan to be greater than the Revolving  Credit
                   Facility Limit.

5.2.2        Subject  always to the other  terms of this  Agreement,  a Drawdown
             Notice  shall be  irrevocable  and the  Parent  shall be obliged to
             borrow in accordance with its terms.

5.2.3        Revolving  Advances  shall be made only on a Business  Day  falling
             before the end of the Commitment Period.

5.2.4        Promptly upon receipt of the same, the Agent shall notify the Banks
             of its receipt of a Drawdown Notice.

5.2.5        Clauses  5.2.1(b)  and (c) shall not apply in the case of the first
             drawdown  under the Revolving  Facility to the extent used to repay
             the Existing Facility Outstandings or any other drawdown in respect
             of a  Revolving  Advance  used to  repay in whole or in part one or
             more  maturing  Revolving  Advances in  aggregate  in the same or a
             greater amount.

5.3          Participations and Payments

5.3.1        Subject  always to the  other  terms of this  Agreement,  each Bank
             acting  through  its  Lending  Office,  agrees  to  contribute  its
             Participation  in  each  Revolving  Advance  in the  amount  of its
             Participation  being that proportion  which its undrawn  Commitment
             bears to the undrawn part of the Total  Commitments on the relative
             Drawdown Date.

5.3.2        Subject to  receiving  written  notification  from the Agent of the
             terms  of a  Drawdown  Notice,  each  Bank  shall  on the  relative
             Drawdown  Date make  available  to the Agent to such account as the
             Agent may have  previously  specified for this  purpose,  not later
             than 11.00 a.m. (London time) on such date in immediately available
             funds,  an amount in  Sterling  equal to its  Participation  in the
             requested Revolving Advance.

5.4          Repayment of Existing Facilities

5.4.1        The Borrowers hereby  irrevocably  instruct the Agent and the Agent
             agrees  to  apply  such  part  of the  Transaction  Proceeds  as is
             necessary to repay the Bridging Facility in full.

5.4.2        The repayment of the Bridging Facility shall be made on the date of
             receipt by the Agent of the Transaction Proceeds.

5.4.3        No indemnity  payment,  breakage costs,  prepayment or cancellation
             fees or other  amounts shall be payable in respect of any repayment
             in  accordance  with this Clause 5.4 other than  pursuant to a side
             letter dated today's date between the Parent and the Agent.

5.4.4        On and  with  effect  from the date of  repayment  of the  Bridging
             Facility,   the  Bridging  Facility  shall  be  terminated  and  be
             cancelled.

5.4.5        The repayment of the Existing  Facilities  Outstandings by means of
             the  drawing  of the first  Revolving  Advance on any date shall be
             permitted notwithstanding that the repayment would not otherwise be
             permitted but for this Clause 5.

5.4.6        On and  with  effect  from the date of  repayment  of the  Existing
             Facilities   Outstandings,   the  Existing   Facilities   shall  be
             terminated and cancelled.

5.4.7        The Existing  Facilities are hereby amended to the extent necessary
             to give effect to this Clause 5.4.

5.5          Confirmation

             The Banks warrant and undertake to each of the Borrowers that apart
             from  this  Revolving  Credit  Facility,   the  Existing  Ancillary
             Facilities,  the Existing  Facilities and the Bridging Facility are
             the only lending  facilities  which are made available to the Group
             by the Banks as at the date hereof.


6.           INTEREST

6.1          Interest Rate

             Interest shall accrue on each Revolving  Advance in respect of each
             Interest Period at the rate, in each case,  determined by the Agent
             to be the aggregate of:

             (i)         the Margin;
             (ii)        LIBOR; and
             (iii)       Mandatory Cost Rate.

6.2          Interest Periods

6.2.1        The Parent shall select an Interest Period for a Revolving  Advance
             in the relevant  Drawdown Notice.  Interest Periods in respect of a
             Revolving  Advance may be of one or three months'  duration or such
             other period as the Banks  (acting  reasonably)  may agree with the
             Parent.

6.2.2        No Interest  Period shall extend beyond Final Repayment Date and if
             an Interest Period purports so to do, it shall nevertheless  expire
             on Final Repayment Date.

6.2.3        Any Interest  Period which  commences on the last Business Day in a
             month  or on a  Business  Day for  which  there  is no  numerically
             corresponding  day in the month in which that Interest Period is to
             end,  shall  (subject to Clause 6.2.4) end on the last Business Day
             in that later month.

6.2.4        Any Interest Period which would otherwise end on a day which is not
             a Business Day, shall end on the next  succeeding  Business Day or,
             if that  day  falls  in the  following  month,  on the  immediately
             preceding Business Day.

6.3          Default Interest

6.3.1        If a Borrower fails to pay any sum payable under any Financing
             Document on the due date, such Borrower shall pay default interest
             on such sum (or, as the case may be, the amount thereof for the
             time being due and unpaid) to the Agent for the account of the
             Agent or the Banks, as the case may be, from the due date to the
             date of actual payment in full calculated by reference to
             successive Interest Periods (each of such duration as the Agent
             may from time to time select (but not shorter than one week) and
             the first beginning on the relative due date) at the
             rate per annum being the aggregate of:

             (i)         1 per cent. per annum;

             (ii)        the Margin;

             (iii)       LIBOR; and

             (iv)        the Mandatory Cost Rate.

6.3.2        So long as the default  continues,  such rate shall be recalculated
             in  accordance  with the  provisions of this Clause 6.3 on the last
             day of each such Interest  Period and unpaid  interest then payable
             but unpaid under this Clause shall if not paid be compounded at the
             end of each Interest Period.

6.4          Calculation and Payment of Interest

6.4.1        Promptly following the beginning of each Interest Period, the Agent
             will  notify  the  relative  Borrower  of the  rate and  amount  of
             interest  payable for such Interest Period (but in the case of such
             interest  calculated under Clause 6.3, any such  notification  need
             not be made more frequently than weekly).  Such notification  shall
             set out in reasonable detail the basis of computation of the amount
             of interest so payable.

6.4.2        Interest due from the relative Borrower to any of the Agent and the
             Banks under this Agreement shall:

             (i)    accrue from day to day at the appropriate rate calculated
                    under this Clause 6;

             (ii)   except as otherwise provided in this Agreement, be paid
                    by the  relative  Borrower to the Agent for the account
                    of the  Banks or the  Agent,  as the  case  may be,  in
                    arrear on each Interest Date,  save that in the case of
                    any Interest  Period which is for longer than 3 months,
                    the relative  Borrower shall pay interest at the end of
                    each 3  month  period  during  such  period  and on the
                    relative Interest Date;

             (iii)  be calculated on the basis of the actual number of days
                    elapsed and a 365 day year; and

             (iv) be payable after as well as before judgment.

6.5          Agent's Determination

             The determination by the Agent of any interest payable under any of
             Clauses 6.1 and 6.3 shall  constitute  prima facie  evidence of the
             amount payable by the relative Borrower.

6.6          Adjustment to Margin

             The  Margin of 1% per annum  applicable  to  drawings  in excess of
             (pound)19,500,000  shall  only  apply for so long as there  remains
             standing to the credit of the  Deposit  Account the sum of at least
             (pound)5,000,000.  For each pound by which the amount  standing  to
             the credit of the Deposit Account is reduced below (pound)5,000,000
             the  Margin  shall be  increased  to 2% per annum in  respect of an
             equivalent amount of drawings in excess of (pound)19,500,000.


7.           REPAYMENT

7.1          Repayment of the Revolving Loan

7.1.1        Subject to the terms of this Agreement, the Parent shall repay each
             Revolving Advance in full on the relevant Interest Date by means of
             a payment to the Agent (for the account of the Banks).

7.1.2        Subject to the terms of this  Agreement,  any amounts  repaid under
             this Agreement may be re-borrowed.

7.1.3        If all or part of an  existing  Revolving  Advance  is to be repaid
             from the proceeds of all or part of a new Revolving  Advance,  then
             as between each Bank and the  Borrower,  the amount to be repaid by
             the Borrower  shall be set off against the amount to be advanced by
             that Bank in relation to the new Revolving Advance and the party to
             whom the smaller  amount is to be paid shall pay to the other party
             a sum equal to the difference between the two amounts.

7.1.4        For the  avoidance of doubt the  Revolving  Loan shall be repaid by
             the Borrower in full on the Final Repayment Date.

7.2          Prepayment

             Subject to Clauses  7.3,  8 and 9 the  Borrower  may not prepay any
             Revolving Advance before the end of its Interest Period.

7.3          Mandatory Prepayment on Wilmslow Disposal and other Disposals

7.3.1        On  completion  of the Wilmslow  Disposal the Parent shall  procure
             that there is paid into its current  account  with  NatWest the net
             proceeds of sale  received by HLSL of the Wilmslow  Property  after
             deduction only of any amounts owing under the Ciba Geigy  Agreement
             and the direct costs  (including  any VAT)  incurred in relation to
             such sale (the "Net Wilmslow Proceeds").

7.3.2        On completion of any Disposals or series of connected  Disposals in
             respect of which the Disposal  Proceeds  exceed  (pound)50,000  the
             Parent shall  procure  that there is paid into its current  account
             with NatWest the Disposal Proceeds.

7.3.3        If there is sufficient  Headroom in the Revolving  Credit  Facility
             the Revolving Credit Limit shall be reduced by an amount equivalent
             to the Net Wilmslow  Proceeds or the relevant Disposal Proceeds (as
             the  case may  be).  To the  extent  that  there is not  sufficient
             Headroom the  Revolving  Credit Limit shall be reduced by an amount
             equivalent  to the Net Wilmslow  Proceeds or the relevant  Disposal
             Proceeds (as the case may be) on the next Interest  Date.  Any such
             reduction shall reduce each Bank's Commitment rateably.

7.4          Cancellation

7.4.1        The Parent may, by giving the Agent not less than 2 Business  Days'
             prior notice,  cancel all or part of the Available Revolving Credit
             Facility (but if in part, in a minimum  amount of  (pound)1,000,000
             and an integral multiples of (pound)500,000).

7.4.2        Any notice of  cancellation  shall be irrevocable and shall specify
             the date on which the cancellation shall take effect and the amount
             of the  cancellation.  The Agent shall promptly notify the Banks of
             receipt of any such notice.

7.4.3        The Parent may not borrow any part of the Revolving Credit Facility
             which has been cancelled. Any cancellation shall reduce each Bank's
             Commitment rateably.

7.4.4        The  Parent  may not  cancel  all or part of the  Revolving  Credit
             Facility except as expressly provided in this Agreement.


8.           CHANGES IN CIRCUMSTANCES

8.1          Illegality

             If by  reason of a Change it is or  becomes  illegal  for a Bank to
             maintain its  Commitment  or to continue to make  available or fund
             its Participation in any Revolving Advance, then:

             (a)         that Bank shall notify the Agent and the Parent; and

             (b)         (i)     the Commitment of that Bank shall be cancelled
                                 immediately; and

                         (ii)    the Parent  shall  prepay to the Agent (for
                                 the  account  of  that  Bank)  that  Bank's
                                 Participation  in  all  Revolving  Advances
                                 (together  with  accrued  interest  on  the
                                 amount  prepaid and all other amounts owing
                                 to that Bank under this Agreement) within 5
                                 Business  Days of  demand by that Bank (or,
                                 if permitted  by the  relevant  law, on the
                                 next   Interest   Date   of  the   relevant
                                 Revolving Advances).

             Any such prepayment under paragraph  (b)(ii) above shall be subject
             to Clause 9.3.

8.2          Increased Costs

8.2.1        If, after the date of this Agreement,  a Change occurs which causes
             an  Increased  Cost (as defined in Clause  8.2.3) to a Bank (or any
             company of which that Bank is a  Subsidiary)  then the Parent shall
             pay (as additional  interest) to the Agent (for the account of that
             Bank) within 5 Business  Days of demand all amounts which that Bank
             certifies to be necessary to  compensate  that Bank (or any company
             of which that Bank is a Subsidiary) for the Increased Cost.

8.2.2        Any demand made under  Clause  8.2.1 shall be made by the  relevant
             Bank  through the Agent and shall set out in  reasonable  detail so
             far as is  practicable  the basis of  computation  of the Increased
             Cost.

8.2.3        In this Clause 8.2:

             "Increased  Cost"  means any cost to, or  reduction  in the  amount
             payable  to, or  reduction  in the return on capital or  regulatory
             capital achieved by, a Bank (or any company of which that Bank is a
             Subsidiary)  to the extent that it arises,  directly or indirectly,
             as a result of the Change and is  attributable to the Commitment or
             Participation in any Revolving  Advance of that Bank or the funding
             of that Bank's Participation in any Revolving Advance:

             (a) any Tax Liability (other than Tax on Overall Net Income)
                 incurred by  that Bank;

             (b) any changes in the basis or timing of  Taxation  (other
                 than  Tax on  Overall  Net  Income)  of  that  Bank  in
                 relation  to its  Commitment  or  Participation  in any
                 Revolving  Advance  or to the  funding  of that  Bank's
                 Participation in any Revolving Advance;

             (c) the cost to that Bank (or any company of which that Bank is a
                 Subsidiary) of complying with, or the reduction in the amount
                 payable to or reduction in the return on capital or regulatory
                 capital achieved by that Bank (or any company of which that
                 Bank is a Subsidiary) as a result of complying with, any
                 capital adequacy or similar requirements howsoever arising,
                 including as a result of an increase in the amount of capital
                 to be allocated to the Revolving Credit Facility or of a
                 change to the weighting of that Bank's
                 Commitment or Participation in any Revolving Advance; and

             (d) the cost to that Bank of  complying  with any  reserve,
                 cash ratio,  special deposit or liquidity  requirements
                 (or any other similar requirements).

             "Tax Liability" means, in respect of any person:

             (a)   any liability or any increase in the liability of that
                   person to make any payment of or in respect of Tax;

             (b)   the loss of any relief, allowance,  deduction or credit
                   in  respect  of Tax  which  would  otherwise  have been
                   available to that person;

             (c)   the  setting off  against  income,  profits or gains or
                   against any Tax  liability  of any  relief,  allowance,
                   deduction  or credit  in  respect  of Tax  which  would
                   otherwise have been available to that person; and

             (d)   the loss or setting off against any Tax  liability of a
                   right to  repayment of Tax which would  otherwise  have
                   been available to that person.

             For  the  purposes  of this  definition  of  "Tax  Liability",  any
             question of whether or not any relief, allowance, deduction, credit
             or right to  repayment  of Tax has been lost or set off, and if so,
             the  date on  which  that  loss or  set-off  took  place,  shall be
             conclusively determined by the relevant person's auditors.

             "Tax on Overall Net  Income"  means,  in  relation  to a Bank,  Tax
             (other than Tax deducted or withheld  from any payment)  imposed on
             the net  profits  of that  Bank by the  jurisdiction  in which  its
             Lending Office or its head office is situated.

8.2.4        The Parent  shall not be obliged to make a payment in respect of an
             Increased  Cost  under  this  Clause  8.2 to the  extent  that  the
             Increased Cost has been compensated for by the payment of Mandatory
             Cost  Rate  or  the  operation  of  Clause  9.4  (or  would  be  so
             compensated but for the operation of Clause 9.4.4 or Clause 19).

8.2.5        If the Parent is required to pay any amount to a Bank under this
             Clause 8.2, then, without prejudice to that obligation and so
             long as the circumstances giving rise to the relevant Increased
             Cost are continuing and subject to the Parent giving the
             Agent and that Bank not less than 10 Business Days' prior notice
             (which shall be irrevocable), the Parent may prepay all, but not
             part, of that Bank's Participation in the Revolving Loan together
             with accrued interest on the amount prepaid.  Any such prepayment
             shall be subject to Clause 9.3.  On any such prepayment the
             Commitment of the relevant Bank shall be automatically cancelled.

8.3          Market disruption

8.3.1        If, in relation to an Revolving Advance and a particular Interest
             Period:

             (a)     the Agent  determines  that,  because of  circumstances
                     affecting  the  London  interbank   market   generally,
                     reasonable   and  adequate   means  do  not  exist  for
                     ascertaining  LIBOR for that Revolving Advance for that
                     Interest Period; or

             (b)     the Agent has been  notified  by a group of Banks whose
                     Commitments  together  exceed 50 per cent. of the Total
                     Commitments that in their opinion:

                     (i)     matching  deposits  may not be available to
                             them in the London  interbank market in the
                             ordinary  course of  business to fund their
                             Participations  in that  Revolving  Advance
                             for that Interest Period; or

                     (ii)    the  cost  to them  of  obtaining  matching
                             deposits  in the  London  interbank  market
                             would  be  in  excess  of  LIBOR  for  that
                             Interest Period,

             the Agent shall  promptly  notify the Parent and the Banks of that
             event (such notice being a "market disruption notice").

8.3.2        If a market disruption notice applies to a proposed Revolving
             Advance, that Revolving Advance shall not be made.  Instead, the
             Agent and the Borrowers shall immediately enter into negotiations
             for a period of not more than 30 Business Days with a view to
             agreeing a substitute basis for calculating the interest rate for
             the Revolving Advance or for funding the Revolving Advance
             (whether in Sterling or another currency).  Any substitute basis
             agreed by the Agent (with the consent of all the Banks) and the
             Borrowers shall take effect in accordance with its terms
             and be binding on all the Parties.  This Clause 8.3.2 shall not
             apply in respect of a proposed Revolving Advance used to repay one
             or more maturing Revolving Advances in aggregate in the same
             amount or a greater amount and Clause 8.3.3 shall apply instead.

8.3.3        If a market disruption notice applies to an outstanding Revolving
             Advance, then:

             (a)   the Agent and the Parent shall  immediately  enter into
                   negotiations  for a period of not more that 30 Business
                   Days with a view to  agreeing  a  substitute  basis for
                   calculating  the  rate of  interest  for the  Revolving
                   Advance or for funding the Revolving  Advance  (whether
                   in Sterling or another currency);

             (b)   any  substitute  basis agreed under Clause  8.3.3(a) by
                   the Agent  (with the  consent of all the Banks) and the
                   Parent shall take effect in  accordance  with its terms
                   and be binding on all the Parties;

             (c)   if no substitute basis is agreed under Clause 8.3.3(a),
                   then, subject to Clause 8.3.4, each Bank shall (through the
                   Agent) certify before the last day of the Interest Period to
                   which the market disruption notice relates a substitute
                   basis for maintaining its Participation in the Revolving
                   Advance which shall reflect the cost to the Bank of funding
                   its Participation in the Revolving Advance from whatever
                   sources it reasonably selects plus the Margin and
                   (if applicable) Mandatory Cost Rate; and

             (d)   each substitute  basis so certified shall be binding on
                   the Parent and the certifying  Bank and treated as part
                   of this Agreement.

8.3.4        If no substitute  basis is agreed under Clause  8.3.3(a),  then, so
             long as the  circumstances  giving  rise to the  market  disruption
             notice  continue and subject to the Parent giving the Agent and the
             Banks  not  less  than  10  days'  prior  notice  (which  shall  be
             irrevocable),  the Parent may prepay the Revolving Advance to which
             the market disruption notice applies together with accrued interest
             on the  amount  prepaid.  Any such  prepayment  shall be subject to
             Clause 9.3.

8.3.5        If circumstances  which gave or would give rise to the service of a
             market  disruption notice cease, the original basis for calculating
             LIBOR will again apply.

8.4          Mitigation

8.4.1        If any  circumstances  arise in respect of any Bank which would, or
             upon the giving of notice would,  result in the operation of Clause
             8.1, 8.2, 8.3 or 9.4 to the detriment of the Parent, then that Bank
             shall:

             (a)  promptly upon becoming aware of those circumstances and their
                  results,  notify the Agent and the Parent; and

             (b)  in consultation with the Agent and the Parent, take
                  reasonable steps to mitigate the effects of those
                  circumstances (including changing its Lending Office or
                  consulting with the Parent with a view to transferring some
                  or all of its rights and obligations under this Agreement to
                  another bank or other financial institution acceptable to
                  the Parent) in a manner which will avoid the circumstances in
                  question and on terms reasonably acceptable to the Agent, the\
                  Parent and thatBank,

             provided  that no Bank shall be obliged to take any steps  which in
             its reasonable opinion would or might have an adverse effect on its
             business  or  financial  condition  or the  management  of its  Tax
             affairs  or cause  it to incur  any  material  additional  costs or
             expenses.

8.4.2        Nothing in this Clause 8.4 shall limit, reduce, affect or otherwise
             qualify  the  rights of any Bank or the  obligations  of the Parent
             under  Clauses  8.1,  8.2,  8.3 and  9.4  other  than as  expressly
             provided.

8.4.3        Each Bank  undertakes to notify the Parent as soon as is reasonably
             practical of any matter of which the Bank becomes aware which would
             or might  reasonably be expected to give rise to any  obligation or
             liability on the part of the Parent under this Clause 8.

8.5          Certificates

             The  certificate or  notification  of the Agent or, as the case may
             be, the relevant Bank as to any of the matters in relation to which
             this Clause 8 provides  for a  certificate  or  notification  to be
             given  shall be in  reasonable  detail  and  shall  be prima  facie
             evidence of the contents thereof.


9.           PAYMENTS

9.1          Time and Place

             All  payments  to be  made by the  Borrowers  in  relation  to this
             Agreement  shall be made on the due date in  immediately  available
             funds in Sterling by no later than 12.00 noon (London  time) to the
             appropriate account in London of the Agent which account shall have
             been previously specified by the Agent.

9.2          Business Days

             If, but for this Clause, any sum would become due for payment under
             this  Agreement on a day which is not a Business  Day, such payment
             shall be made on the next succeeding  Business Day PROVIDED THAT if
             the next succeeding  Business Day falls in the next calendar month,
             then  such  payment  shall  be  made on the  immediately  preceding
             Business Day.

9.3          Indemnity and Breakage Costs

9.3.1        Each Borrower  agrees to indemnify  each Bank on demand against any
             loss or expense (including,  but not limited to any loss or expense
             sustained or incurred or to be sustained or incurred by any Bank in
             liquidating  or employing  deposits  acquired or contracted  for to
             effect or maintain its  Participation  in the Revolving Loan or any
             part  thereof  other than any loss of  Margin)  which such Bank has
             sustained or incurred as a consequence of any of:

             (i)    a  Revolving  Advance  not being  made,  following  the
                    service  of  a   Drawdown   Notice  by  reason  of  the
                    non-fulfilment  of any of the  Conditions  Precedent or
                    otherwise (save as may arise as a result of the failure
                    of such Bank to comply with its obligations hereunder);

             (ii)   a failure of the  Borrowers  to make payment on the due
                    date of any sum due under this Agreement; and

             (iii)  the repayment of the Revolving Loan or the  termination
                    of the Revolving Credit Facility pursuant to Clause 13.

9.3.2        If any prepayment or repayment is made otherwise than on an
             Interest Date, each Borrower shall on demand pay to the Agent, for
             the account of the Banks, such additional amount (not being an
             amount to which the indemnity in Clause 9.3.1 applies) as the
             Agent may certify is necessary to compensate the Banks or any of
             them for any loss or expense on account of funds borrowed,
             contracted for or utilised to fund the amounts so repaid or
             prepaid.  Any certifications issued by the Agent pursuant to this
             Clause shall be in reasonable detail and constitute
             prima facie evidence of the contents thereof.

9.4          Grossing-Up

9.4.1        Subject to Clause  9.4.2,  all sums payable to any of the Agent and
             the Banks by a Borrower  pursuant to or in  connection  with any of
             the Financing  Documents  shall be paid in full without any set-off
             or counterclaim  whatsoever and free and clear of all deductions or
             withholdings whatsoever save only as may be required by law.

9.4.2        If any  deduction or  withholding  is required by law in respect of
             any payment due to any of the Agent and the Banks pursuant to or in
             connection  with  any  of the  Financing  Documents,  the  relative
             Borrower shall:

             (a)         ensure or procure that the deduction or  withholding is
                         made and  that it does not  exceed  the  minimum  legal
                         requirement therefor;

             (b)         pay,  or  procure  the  payment  of,  the  full  amount
                         deducted or withheld to the relevant  Taxation or other
                         authority in accordance with the applicable law;

             (c)         (i)   subject to Clause 9.4.4 increase the payment in
                               respect of which the deduction or withholding is
                               required so that the net amount received by the
                               payee (which expression when used in this Clause
                               9.4.2 shall mean the Agent or any Bank) after
                               the deduction or withholding (and after taking
                               account of any further deduction or withholding
                               which is required to be made as a consequence
                               of the increase) shall be equal to the amount
                               which the payee would have  been entitled to
                               receive in the absence of any requirement
                               to make any deductions or withholdings; or

                         (ii)  subject to Clause 9.4.4. if the payment is to be
                               made by any other Borrower, pay directly to the
                               payee such sum (a "compensating sum") as will,
                               after taking into account any deduction or
                               withholding which the relative Borrower is
                               obliged to make from the compensating sum,
                               enable the payee to receive, on the due date for
                               payment, a net sum equal to the sum which the
                               payee would have received in the absence of any
                               obligation to make any deductions or
                               withholdings; and

             (d)         as soon as  reasonably  practicable  deliver or procure
                         the delivery to the relative payee of receipts or other
                         documentation  reasonably  satisfactory  to  the  payee
                         evidencing each of the deductions or withholdings which
                         has been made.

9.4.3    If the Agent is obliged to make any deduction or withholding from any
         payment to any of the Banks (an "agency payment") which represents an
         amount or amounts received by the Agent from any Borrower under any of
         the Financing Documents, the relative Borrower shall pay directly to
         the relative Bank such sum (an "agency compensating sum") as will,
         after taking into account any deduction or withholding which the
         relative Borrower is obliged to make from the agency compensating sum,
         enable such Bank to receive, on the due date for payment of the agency
         payment, an amount equal to the agency payment which such Bank would
         have received in the absence of any obligation to make any deductions
         or withholdings.

9.4.4    The  Borrowers  shall not be required to pay an  additional  amount
         under  this  Clause  9.4 if the  payment  in  respect  of which the
         deduction or  withholding is required is a payment of interest on a
         Revolving Advance and:

             (a)   at the time the  Revolving  Advance was made,  the Bank
                   making  the  relevant   Revolving  Advance  was  not  a
                   Qualifying  Bank  otherwise  than as a consequence of a
                   Change  occurring after the date of this Agreement (and
                   the  obligation  to deduct or  withhold  would not have
                   arisen if the  Advance  had been  made by a  Qualifying
                   Bank); or

             (b)   at the time when the interest is paid, the Bank to which
                   the relevant payment is made is not beneficially entitled
                   to it or, being beneficially entitled to it, the Bank is
                   not within the charge to United Kingdom corporation tax as
                   respects it otherwise than as a consequence of a Change
                   occurring after the date of this Agreement(and the
                   obligation to deduct or withhold would not have arisen if
                   the Bank had been beneficially entitled to the interest
                   and had been within the charge to United Kingdom
                   corporation tax as respects it).

9.4.5        (a)   If any of the Banks determines, in its absolute discretion
                   acting in good faith, that it has received, realised,
                   utilised and retained a Tax benefit by reason of any
                   deduction or withholding in respect of which a Borrower
                   has made an increased payment or paid a compensating sum
                   or an agency compensating sum under Clause 9.4, such Bank
                   shall, provided that the Agent and each Bank has received
                   all amounts which are then due and payable by the Borrowers
                   under any of the Financing Documents, pay to such Borrower
                   (to the extent that such Bank can do so without prejudicing
                   the amount of such benefit or repayment and the right of
                   such Bank, to obtain any other benefit, relief or allowance
                   which may be available to it) such amount, if any, as such
                   Bank, in its absolute discretion shall in good faith
                   determine, will leave such Bank in no worse position than it
                   would have been in if the  deduction
                   or withholding had not been required PROVIDED THAT:

                   (i)   each Bank shall have an absolute discretion
                         as to the time at which  and the  order and
                         manner in which it realises or utilises any
                         Tax  benefit  and shall not be  obliged  to
                         arrange its  business or its Tax affairs in
                         any  particular way in order to be eligible
                         for  any   credit  or  refund  or   similar
                         benefit;

                   (ii)  no Bank shall be obliged  to  disclose  any
                         information  regarding  its  business,  Tax
                         affairs or Tax computations;

                   (iii) if a Bank has made a payment to a Borrower pursuant to
                         this Clause 9.4.5 on account of any Tax benefit and it
                         subsequently transpires that such Bank did not receive
                         that Tax benefit, or received a lesser Tax benefit, the
                         relative Borrower shall, on demand, pay to such Bank
                         such sum not exceeding the amount of the said payment
                         made by it to the Borrower as the relative Bank may
                         determine as being necessary to restore its after-Tax
                         position to that which it would have been had no
                         adjustment under this Clause (iii) been necessary.

             (b)    No Bank shall be obliged to make any payment under this
                    Clause 9.4.5 if, by doing so, it would  contravene  the
                    terms of any applicable law or any notice, direction or
                    requirement of any governmental or regulatory authority
                    (whether or not having the force of law).

9.5          Prepayment Right

             If a Borrower  is  required  to make an  increased  payment for the
             account of a Bank under  Clause 9.4.2 or 9.4.3 (but only so long as
             such requirement exists), subject to giving the Agent and such Bank
             not less than 10 Business  Days' prior written  notice (which shall
             be  irrevocable),  the  relative  Borrower  may prepay  such Bank's
             Participation  in  the  Revolving  Credit  Facility  together  with
             accrued interest thereon PROVIDED THAT any such prepayment shall be
             subject  to the  provisions  of  Clause  9.3  above.  On  any  such
             prepayment  the  Commitment  of the relevant Bank will be cancelled
             and reduced to zero.

9.6          Accounts as Evidence

             Each Bank shall  maintain in accordance  with its usual practice an
             account or  accounts,  which  account  or  accounts  shall,  in the
             absence of manifest  error,  as between the Borrowers and such Bank
             be prima facie  evidence of the amounts from time to time  advanced
             by, owing to, paid and repaid to such Bank under this Agreement.

9.7          Currency of Account

             All  payments  to be made by a Borrower  in respect of a  Revolving
             Advance,  whether  of  interest  or  principal,  shall  be  made in
             Sterling.   All  payments  to  be  made  under  any   indemnity  or
             reimbursement provision of this Agreement relating to costs, losses
             and expenses shall be paid in Sterling.

9.8          Borrowers' Payments

9.8.1        The Agent may assume that each  Borrower will make all payments due
             from it under this  Agreement on the due date and the Agent may, in
             reliance upon such  assumption,  make available to each Bank on any
             payment date an amount equal to such Bank's  pro-rata share of such
             assumed payment.

9.8.2        If a Borrower does not in fact make such payment to the Agent, each
             Bank shall  forthwith on demand by the Agent repay to the Agent the
             amount made available to such Bank (together with interest  thereon
             at the rate  determined  by the Agent as being its cost of  funding
             such payment).

9.9          Banks' Payments

9.9.1        The Agent may assume that each Bank has made its Participation in a
             Revolving  Advance  available to the Agent on the relative Drawdown
             Date and the  Agent may in  reliance  upon  such  assumption,  make
             available to the Parent a corresponding amount.

9.9.2        If such  corresponding  amount is not in fact made available to the
             Agent by such Bank,  the Agent shall be  entitled  to recover  such
             corresponding  amount  (together with interest  thereon at the rate
             determined  by  the  Agent  as  being  its  cost  of  funds  in the
             circumstances) on demand from the relative Borrower.

9.9.3        Where the  Agent has made  available  an  amount to a  Borrower  in
             reliance upon the  assumption  contained in Clause 9.9.1 but a Bank
             has not made its  Participation in the relevant  Revolving  Advance
             available to the Agent then, unless that Bank notified the Agent in
             writing  prior to the relevant  Drawdown  Date that it would not be
             making its Participation in such Revolving Advance available,  that
             Bank shall:

             (a)         if  the   relative   Borrower   does  not   refund  the
                         corresponding  amount  to the  Agent  within  three (3)
                         Business  Days,  reimburse  the Agent  for such  amount
                         (together with interest  thereon at the rate determined
                         by  the  Agent  as  being  its  cost  of  funds  in the
                         circumstances) on demand; and

             (b)         indemnify the Agent from and against all losses, costs,
                         charges  and  expenses  which  the  Agent  may incur or
                         sustain  by  reason of that  Bank not  having  made its
                         Participation   in  the  relevant   Revolving   Advance
                         available.

9.10         Appropriation

             If the Parent shall pay a sum in relation to the  Revolving  Credit
             Facility  which is less than the total amount due and payable under
             this  Agreement  on the day on which  such  sum is paid the  Parent
             hereby  waives  any  rights  it may have to make any  appropriation
             thereof as between  any  amounts so due and  payable and the sum so
             paid  shall be applied in or  towards  satisfaction  of  principal,
             interest,  fees and other sums which are due or overdue for payment
             on that day in such order as the Banks may determine  PROVIDED THAT
             each Bank shall receive its pro-rata share of any such sum.


10.          SECURITY

             Subject  to  Clause  14  the  obligations  and  liabilities  of the
             Borrowers to the Agent and each Bank under this Agreement  shall be
             secured by the interests and rights  granted in favour of the Agent
             as trustee for itself and the Banks under the Security.


11.          REPRESENTATIONS AND WARRANTIES

11.1         Acknowledgement of Reliance

             Each Borrower hereby  acknowledges that the Agent and each Bank has
             entered into this  Agreement  and accepted the security  granted in
             favour of the Agent  under the  Security  in full  reliance  on the
             representations  and  warranties  made or  deemed  to be  made  and
             repeated under this Clause 11.

11.2         Representations and Warranties

             The Parent hereby  represents and warrants to each of the Banks and
             the Agent that save as disclosed  in the Circular or in  paragraphs
             5, 6, 7 and 8 of Schedule 4 to the Investor Placing Agreement:

             (a)         Status:  each member of the Charging Group is a limited
                         company  incorporated  under  the laws of  England  and
                         Wales  or,  in the case of HLS,  under  the laws of the
                         State of Delaware, USA and it possesses the capacity to
                         sue and be sued in its own  name  and has the  power to
                         carry on its business and to own its property and other
                         assets;

             (b)         Powers and authority: each member of the Charging Group
                         has  power  to   execute,   deliver   and  perform  its
                         obligations  under the Financing  Documents to which it
                         is  a  party   and  to  carry   out  the   transactions
                         contemplated  by  such  Financing   Documents  and  all
                         necessary  corporate,  shareholder and other action has
                         been or will  be  taken  to  authorise  the  execution,
                         delivery and performance of the same;

             (c)         Binding obligations:  the obligations of each member of
                         the  Charging  Group under the  Financing  Documents to
                         which it is a party,  constitute  its legal,  valid and
                         binding obligations and are in full force and effect;

             (d)         Contraventions: the execution,delivery and performance
                         by each member of the Charging Group of the Financing
                         Documents to which it is a party does not:

                         (i)         contravene any applicable law or regulation
                                     or any order of any  governmental  or other
                                     official  authority,  body or agency or any
                                     judgment,  order  or  decree  of any  court
                                     having  jurisdiction  over  it  where  such
                                     contravention would have a Material Adverse
                                     Effect;

                         (ii)        conflict  with,  or result in any breach of
                                     any  of  the  terms  of,  or  constitute  a
                                     default  under,   any  agreement  or  other
                                     instrument  to  which  it is a party or any
                                     licence or other  authorisation to which it
                                     is  subject  or by  which  it or any of its
                                     property is bound  other than the  Existing
                                     Facility  where  such  conflict,  breach or
                                     default  would  have  a  Material   Adverse
                                     Effect; or

                         (iii)       contravene or conflict with the  provisions
                                     of   its   Memorandum   and   Articles   of
                                     Association  (or,  in the case of HLS,  its
                                     certificate of incorporation and by-laws);

             (e)    Insolvency: (other than in respect of a solvent winding-up,
                    dissolution or re-organisation previously notified to the
                    Agent in writing) no member of the Group (other than the
                    TMG Companies any  Non-Material Subsidiary and any Dormant
                    Subsidiary) has taken any action nor, to the best of the
                    knowledge, information or belief of the Parent have any
                    steps been taken or legal proceedings started or
                    threatened against it for winding-up, dissolution or
                    re-organisation, the enforcement of any Encumbrance over
                    its assets or for the appointment of a receiver,
                    administrative receiver, or administrator, trustee or
                    similar officer of it or of any material part or all of its
                    assets or revenues;

             (f)    No default:  after the First Drawdown Date each member of
                    the Group(other than the TMG Companies any Non-Material
                    Subsidiary and any Dormant Subsidiary) is not (nor would be
                    with any of the giving of notice, lapse of time,
                    determination of materiality and other condition) in breach
                    of or in default under any deed, instrument or any agreement
                    to which it is a party (other than the Ciba Geigy
                    Agreement) or which is binding on it or any of its assets
                    to an extent or in a manner which has a Material Adverse
                    Effect;

             (g)    Litigation: save as disclosed in writing to the Agent prior
                    to the date hereof, no action, litigation, arbitration or
                    administrative proceeding has been served on or, to the best
                    of the knowledge, information or belief of the Parent is
                    pending or threatened against any member of the Group
                    (other than the TMG Companies any Non-Material
                    Subsidiary and any Dormant Subsidiary) which is reasonably
                    likely to be adversely determined and if so adversely
                    determined would have a Material Adverse Effect and nor is
                    there subsisting any unsatisfied judgment or award given
                    against any of them by any court, board of
                    arbitration or other body which has not been disclosed in
                    writing to the Agent which would have a Material Adverse
                    Effect;

             (h)    Accounts:

                    (i)         each of the latest Accounts  required to be
                                delivered  pursuant  to Clause  12.1(a)  is
                                prepared in accordance  with GAAP and gives
                                a true  and  fair  view  of  the  financial
                                position  of the  Parent  as at the date to
                                which  the same were  prepared  and for the
                                period then ended;

                    (ii)        each set of management accounts required to
                                be  delivered  under Clause  12.1(b)  shows
                                with  reasonable  accuracy in all  material
                                respects  the  financial  condition  of the
                                member  of the  Group in  respect  of which
                                they were  prepared  during  the  period to
                                which they relate; and

                    (iii)       all  material  liabilities  (contingent  or
                                otherwise)  which  should  have been  fully
                                disclosed  or  reserved   against  in  such
                                management  accounts,  were so disclosed or
                                reserved against therein;

             (i)    Encumbrances:  no  Encumbrance  (other  than  Permitted
                    Encumbrances)  exists  over  all  or  any  part  of the
                    present or future  revenues  or assets of any member of
                    the Group  (other than the TMG  Companies,  any Dormant
                    Subsidiary or any Non-Material  Subsidiary) which would
                    have a Material Adverse Effect;

             (j)    Authorisations: all material licences, consents, exemptions,
                    clearances, filings, registrations and authorisations which
                    are or may be necessary to enable each member of the
                    Charging Group to perform its obligations under the
                    Financing Documents to which it is a party and the
                    fulfilment of the transactions contemplated by such
                    documents and for the proper conduct of its business or
                    which are required in connection with the execution,
                    delivery, validity, enforceability or admissibility in
                    evidence of the Financing Documents are in full force
                    and effect save where the absence of any of the same would
                    not have a Material Adverse Effect;

             (k)    No Encumbrances created:  the execution of the Financing
                    Documents by  the members of the Charging Group and the
                    exercise of each of their respective rights and the
                    performance of each of their respective
                    obligations thereunder will not result in the creation of
                    any Encumbrance (other than a Permitted Encumbrance) over
                    or in respect of  any of their present or future revenues,
                    assets or undertakings save  where the creation of such
                    encumbrance would not have a Material Adverse Effect;

             (l)         Taxes: each of the members of the Group (other than the
                         TMG Companies,  each  Non-Material  Subsidiary and each
                         Dormant   Subsidiary)  has  complied  in  all  material
                         respects with all Taxation laws in all jurisdictions in
                         which it is subject to  Taxation  where  non-compliance
                         would have a Material Adverse Effect;

             (m)         Environmental law:  to the best of its knowledge and
                         belief each of the members of the Group save for the
                         TMG Companies is currently complying with and has at
                         all times complied with Environmental Law, every
                         consent, authorisation, licence or approval required by
                         each such member of the Group save for the TMG
                         Companies (including those required under or pursuant
                         to any Environmental Law) in connection  ith the
                         conduct of their respective business and the ownership,
                         use, exploitation or occupation of their respective
                         property and assets has been obtained and is in full
                         force and effect, there has been no default in the
                         observance of the conditions and restrictions (if any)
                         imposed in, or in connection with, any of the same save
                         where any such non-compliance, breach or default would
                         not have a Material Adverse Effect and, to the
                         knowledge of the officers of the Parent, no
                         circumstances have arisen (i) which would entitle any
                         person to  revoke, suspend, amend, vary, withdraw or
                         refuse to amend any of the  same or (ii) which has
                         given rise to an Environmental Claim against
                         any such member of the Group (save for any TMG Company)
                         in either case which would have a Material Adverse
                         Effect having regard to the cost to such member of the
                         Group of meeting such Environmental Claim; and

             (n)         Year 2000: it will have used all reasonable  endeavours
                         to  ensure  that the  Company  System  will  have  been
                         produced,  tested  and  amended  in such a manner on or
                         before 31st December 1999 which will ensure that:

                         (i)         a change of,  reference to or use of a date
                                     before,  on or after 31st  December 1999 in
                                     the   operation  of  the  Company   System,
                                     whether alone or in  conjunction  with each
                                     other  Company  System,  will  not  have  a
                                     Material Adverse Effect; and

                         (ii)        the inclusion of a date or dates before, on
                                     or  after  31st  December  1999 in the date
                                     information  exchanged  with  any  item  of
                                     equipment and software  programme  which is
                                     not a Company  System  but with  which that
                                     Company  System  routinely  exchanges  date
                                     information  in the course of its  business
                                     will not have Material Adverse Effect,

                         and without prejudice to the generality of (i) and (ii)
                         above,  each Company  System  will,  in  responding  to
                         two-digit date input and providing date output, resolve
                         any  ambiguity  as to  century  in a  manner  which  is
                         consistent, clearly defined and apparent to the user.

11.3         Repetition

             The  representations  and  warranties  set out in Clause 11.2 shall
             survive  the  execution  of  this   Agreement  and  (save  for  the
             representations  and warranties  made under Clauses  11.2(d)(i) and
             (ii),  (e),  (i), (k), (l), and (m) and save in relation to matters
             to which the Agent acting on the instructions of the Majority Banks
             shall have consented)  shall be deemed to be repeated by the Parent
             on each  Drawdown  Date  and  each  Interest  Date as if made  with
             reference  to the facts  and  circumstances  existing  at that time
             PROVIDED  THAT the  wording  in second  set of  brackets  in Clause
             11.2(f)  shall not apply when such  representation  and warranty is
             deemed to be so repeated.


12.          UNDERTAKINGS

12.1         Information Undertakings

             The Parent  hereby  undertakes  and agrees  with the Agent and each
             Bank that  throughout  the  Security  Period that other than as the
             Agent acting on the  instructions of the Majority Banks may consent
             it shall:

             (a)         Accounts: as soon as the same become available,  but in
                         any event  within 120 days after the end of each of its
                         Financial Years,  deliver to the Agent for distribution
                         to the Banks,  copies in sufficient  numbers for all of
                         them of the Accounts;

             (b)         Management  Accounts:   as  soon  as  the  same  become
                         available,  but in any event  within 35 days  after the
                         end of each period of one month  during each  Financial
                         Year  of  the   Parent,   deliver   to  the  Agent  for
                         distribution to the Banks, copies in sufficient numbers
                         for all of them of monthly  management  accounts  (on a
                         consolidated and  non-consolidated  basis) of the Group
                         for such period to include:

                         (i)         a statement of profit and loss;

                         (ii)        a balance sheet;

                         (iii)       a cashflow statement;

                         (iv)        a commentary  comparing  where  appropriate
                                     all such  information  with the  estimates,
                                     forecasts and  projections  in the cashflow
                                     forecasts provided to the Banks in relation
                                     to such period;

             (c)         Interim Accounts:  as soon as they become available but
                         in any  event  within  60  days  after  the end of each
                         successive  period  of 3  months  during  each  of  its
                         Financial Years,  deliver to the Agent for distribution
                         to the Banks, its quarterly accounts, interim statement
                         and preliminary announcement;

             (d)         Other   Information:   furnish   to  the   Agent   such
                         information,  documents and records about the business,
                         financial  condition,  operations  and prospects of any
                         member  of the Group as the Agent may from time to time
                         reasonably require;

             (e)         GAAP:  ensure  that all  Accounts  and other  financial
                         information  submitted to the Agent have been  prepared
                         in accordance with GAAP;

             (f)         Shareholder   documents:   deliver   to  the  Agent  in
                         sufficient  copies  for all of the Banks all  documents
                         despatched  by  it to  its  shareholders  or  creditors
                         generally at the same time that they are so despatched;
                         and

             (g)         Default, litigation, etc: on becoming aware of the same
                         promptly notify the Agent of:

                         (i)         any Default and any Default Occurrence;

                         (ii)        any     litigation,      arbitration     or
                                     administrative proceeding commenced against
                                     any member of the Group  (other  than a TMG
                                     Company or a Dormant Subsidiary) in respect
                                     of which the  potential  liability for such
                                     member   of  the  Group  is  in  excess  of
                                     (pound)500,000; and

                         (iii)       any  Encumbrance  (other  than a  Permitted
                                     Encumbrance)  attaching  to the  assets  or
                                     revenues of any member of the Group.

             (h)         Cashflow: provide the Agent (when it provides the Agent
                         with the monthly management  accounts) rolling cashflow
                         forecasts  in  respect of the Group  relating  to the 3
                         month period  starting on that date (the need for these
                         to be reviewed by the Agent 3 months  after the date of
                         this Agreement);

             (i)         Annual budget: provide the Agent with sufficient copies
                         for all of the Banks of the Group's  budget for 1999 by
                         31st January 1999; and

             (j)         Plans  and   Projections:   provide   the  Agent   with
                         sufficient  copies for all of the Banks or any strategy
                         papers,  plans or projections  relating to any proposed
                         Disposals  to be made by the  Group  within  14 days of
                         such papers being approved by the board of the relevant
                         Group Company.

12.2         Positive Covenants

             The Parent  hereby  undertakes  and agrees  with the Agent and each
             Bank that,  throughout the Security  Period,  it shall and it shall
             procure that each of the companies in the Group (other than the TMG
             Companies  and in the case of (a), (b) and (c) below,  Non-Material
             Subsidiaries  or  Dormant  Subsidiaries)  shall  unless  the  Agent
             (acting on the  instructions of the Majority Banks) shall otherwise
             agree:

             (a)   Further documents:  at the request of the Agent subject
                   to Clause 14.2 execute or procure the  execution of all
                   such  documents  as  are in the  opinion  of the  Agent
                   (acting reasonably), necessary to ensure that the Agent
                   and the Banks  obtain the full  benefit of their rights
                   and benefits under the Financing Documents;

             (b)   Insurance:  comply with all its obligations relating to
                   insurances   contained  in  the  Security  and  without
                   limitation  to the  foregoing  maintain  insurances  in
                   respect  of  such  assets  and in such  amounts  as are
                   reasonable  with regard to the size of its business and
                   the value of its assets;

             (c)   Authorisations:  at all times comply with all laws and
                   regulations applicable to it and which are necessary in
                   relation to the conduct of its business generally and obtain,
                   effect and maintain in full force and effect all governmental
                   and other regulatory consents, licences, exemptions,
                   clearances, filings, registrations and authorisations
                   required for (i) the conduct of its business generally where
                   the non-compliance with or absence of which would have a
                   Material Adverse Effect and (ii) the validity, enforceability
                   or, as the case may be, admissibility in evidence of the
                   Financing Documents;

             (d)   Environmental Compliance:  use all reasonable endeavours to
                   comply with all requirements of Environmental Law applicable
                   to each such company (including without limitation, obtaining
                   and maintaining in full force and effect all consents,
                   authorisations, licences or approvals required from time to
                   time in connection with the conduct of its business and the
                   ownership, use, exploitation or occupation of its property
                   and assets) save where any non-acceptance, breach of default
                   would not have a Material Adverse Effect and promptly notify
                   the Agent of (i) any Environmental Claim which has been made
                   or threatened against any member of the Group or (to the
                   knowledge of the Parent) against any occupier of any property
                   owned or leased by any member of the Group or of any
                   circumstance that arises which might give rise to
                   any such Environmental Claim and (ii) any revocation,
                   suspension, amendment, variation, withdrawal or refusal to
                   grant any consent, authorisation, licence or approval,
                   which in the case of either (i) or (ii) would give rise to
                   an Environmental Claim against any such member
                   of the Group which would have a Material Adverse Effect; and

             (e)   Payment of US taxes:  in respect of HLS only, will pay all
                   taxes in the USA which if not paid would result in the
                   taxation authorities in the USA having a prior claim over
                   the New Jersey Property or the proceeds of sale thereof
                   ahead of the Banks, provided that if HLS wants to dispute
                   the payment of any tax levied against it the Banks
                   shall allow the non payment of the relevant taxes subject to
                   HLS first paying an amount equivalent to the amount of the
                   taxes into a separate deposit account with FNBM which cannot
                   be reduced or used by HLS until the conclusion of the
                   dispute with the relevant taxing authority. Provided that no
                   reduction of any sums in such deposit account by
                   reason of any application by FNBM in accordance with this
                   Agreement (whether by way of set-off, consolidation or
                   combination of accounts or enforcement of Security or
                   otherwise) shall give rise to a default
                   under the provisions of this Clause 12.2(e).

12.3         Negative Covenants

             The  Parent  hereby  undertakes  with the  Agent and each Bank that
             during  the  Security  Period  it shall  not and the  Parent  shall
             procure that none of the companies in the Group (other than the TMG
             Companies, the Dormant Subsidiaries and, in respect of (b), (c) and
             (d) the Non-Material  Subsidiaries)  shall unless the Agent (acting
             on the instructions of the Banks) otherwise agrees:

             (a)         Negative  pledges:  other than Permitted  Encumbrances,
                         create or permit to subsist any Encumbrance over any of
                         its  undertaking and assets from time to time where the
                         same would have a Material Adverse Effect;

             (b)         Change of business:  make any change in its business as
                         at  present   conducted,   which  would   result  in  a
                         substantial  change  in  the  nature  of  the  business
                         carried  on by the  Group  as a whole  or  carry on any
                         other  business which is substantial in relation to the
                         business of the Group as at present conducted;

             (c)         Mergers:  merge or  consolidate  with any other  person
                         other than a member of the Charging Group;

             (d)         Disposals:  make a Disposal other than:

                         (i)     in the ordinary course of its trading
                                 activities; or

                         (ii)    where the proceeds of the Disposal are used
                                 within a  reasonable  period to purchase an
                                 asset to replace  the asset the  subject of
                                 that Disposal; or

                         (iii)   where the Disposal is of obsolete assets; or

                         (iv)    where the Disposal is of a kind referred to in
                                 Clause 7.3; or
                       
                         (v)     where the Disposal is made by a Group Company
                                 to a member of the Charging Group; or

                         (vi)    a Disposal on arm's length terms where the
                                 aggregate value  of the assets which are the
                                 subject of a Disposal by Members of the Group
                                 (other than in accordance with  paragraphs
                                 (i), (ii), (iii), (iv) and (v) above) in any
                                 Financial Year of the Parent does not exceed
                                 (pound)500,000. For the purposes of this
                                 paragraph, the value of any asset
                                 shall be the greater of its book value and the
                                 consideration received for it;

                       where such Disposal would have a Material Adverse Effect

             (e)         Indebtedness:   incur  any   indebtedness   other  than
                         Permitted  Indebtedness  where  to do so  would  have a
                         Material Adverse Effect;

             (f)         Dividends:  in  respect  of the  Parent,  make,  pay or
                         declare  before 31st August 2000 any  dividend or other
                         distribution  in relation to any shares forming part of
                         its issued share capital;

             (g)         Acquisitions:  acquire  any  business  of, or shares or
                         securities of, any company (other than a Group Company)
                         other than where:

                         (i)         the aggregate of the consideration  payable
                                     for, and Indebtedness assumed by members of
                                     the  Group  in  connection  with  all  such
                                     acquisitions  made by  members of the Group
                                     in any  Financial  Year of the Parent  does
                                     not exceed (pound)100,000; and

                         (ii)        promptly on such acquisition:

                             (A)  if the acquisition is of a business, the
                                  business and assets of the business become
                                  subject to the Existing Security; or

                             (B)  if the acquisition is of shares comprising
                                  more than 50 per cent. of the issued share
                                  capital of a company, subject to any legal or
                                  contractual prohibition or limitation on the
                                  giving of any guarantee and debenture (or its
                                  equivalent under relevant law), that company
                                  executes a guarantee and debenture (or the
                                  equivalent documents (in a form approved by
                                  the Agent) under the laws of the jurisdiction
                                  of that company's incorporation) and delivers
                                  the same to the Agent;

             (h)   Capital Expenditure:

                   no  member  of  the  Group   shall  incur  any  Capital
                   Expenditure if it would result in the aggregate Capital
                   Expenditure incurred by the Group in any period set out
                   in Column A below exceeding the amount set out opposite
                   such period in Column B below:

                  Column A                              Column B
                  Period                               Amount ((pound)m)

                  1st July 1998 to 31st December 1998       4
                  1st July 1998 to 30th June 1999           8
                  1st July 1998 to 31st December 1999      12
                  1st July 1998 to 30th June 2000          16

             (i)   Deposit Account:  withdraw any monies from the Deposit
                   Account other than for the Group's general working capital
                   requirements.  For the avoidance of doubt the restriction
                   contained in this Clause 12.3(i) will prevent the Parent
                   from transferring any monies standing to the credit of the
                   Deposit Account into any account in the name of, or on
                   behalf of, any Group Company with another bank or financial
                   institution (other than FNBM where such monies are to be used
                   by HLS for its general working capital requirements). For the
                   avoidance of doubt the provisions of this Clause 12.3(i) will
                   not prevent the transfer of any such monies to another 
                   account of a Borrower with the  Agent for that Borrower's
                   general working capital requirements.


13.          DEFAULT

13.1         Defaults

             There shall be a Default if:

             (a)   Non Payment: any amount payable under this Agreement in
                   respect of principal, interest or the Participation Fee
                   referred to in Clause 16.4 is not paid by the  relative
                   Borrower  at the place at which it is  expressed  to be
                   payable and within 3 Business Days of the due date; or

             (b)   Other defaults:  except where such failure has been disclosed
                   in the Circular or in paragraphs 5, 6, 7 and 8 of Schedule 4
                   to the Investor Placing Agreement any member of the Charging
                   Group fails to comply with any of its obligations and
                   undertakings under any of the Financing Documents (other
                   than the obligations and undertakings referred to in the
                   foregoing Clause 13.1(a)) which failure (other than
                   any breach of the provisions of Clause 12.3) would have a
                   Material Adverse Effect and, if such failure is capable of
                   remedy, such Default is not remedied within 15 Business Days
                   after notice of such failure  has been given by the Parent
                   to the Agent or (if earlier) within 15 Business Days, of the
                   Agent becoming aware of such failure and giving
                   notice thereof to the Parent; or

             (c)   Breach of representation or warranty:  any representation,
                   warranty or statement made or deemed to be repeated by any
                   member of the Charging Group under this Agreement or in any
                   notice, certificate or statement of fact referred to in or
                   delivered under this Agreement is or proves to have been
                   incorrect when made or deemed to have been repeated and
                   such incorrectness would result in a Material Adverse Effect
                   and if the subject matter of such incorrectness is capable
                   of correction it is not corrected within 15 Business Days
                   after notice of the breach in question has been given by the
                   Parent to the Agent or (if earlier) within 15 Business Days
                   of the Agent becoming aware of the breach and
                   giving notice thereof to the Parent; or

             (d)   Financing  Documents:  subject to Clauses 13.4 and 14.2
                   any of the  Financing  Documents is not or ceases to be
                   in  full   force  and   effect  or  the   validity   or
                   enforceability  of  any  of  the  terms  of  any of the
                   Financing  Documents  shall be  contested by any of the
                   members of the Group; or

             (e)   Cross-default:  any Indebtedness  (other than under the
                   Existing   Ancillary   Facilities   or,  the   Existing
                   Facilities  or  the  Bridging  Facility)  of any of the
                   members of the Group  (other than the TMG  Companies or
                   any  Dormant   Company)  in   aggregate  in  excess  of
                   (pound)1,000,000:

                   (i)  is declared to be or otherwise becomes due and payable
                        prior to its specified maturity; or

                   (ii) is not paid when due or within any applicable grace
                        period;

             (f)   Attachments  or  distress:  a creditor or  encumbrancer
                   attaches  or  takes   possession  of,  or  a  distress,
                   execution,  sequestration or other process is levied or
                   enforced  upon or sued  out  against,  any  part of the
                   undertaking  and  assets of any of the  members  of the
                   Group  other  than  the TMG  Companies  or any  Dormant
                   Company  (having  a value of at  least  (pound)500,000)
                   which would have a Material Adverse Effect and the same
                   is not  discharged  or  terminated  within  21  days of
                   commencement; or

             (g)   Inability to pay debts: any of the members of the Group
                   (other than the TMG Companies any Non-Material Subsidiary or
                   any Dormant Subsidiary):

                   (i)    suspends payment of its debts generally or is
                          unable or admits its inability to pay its debts
                          as they fall due; or

                   (ii)   commences  negotiations  with its creditors
                          generally   with  a  view  to  the  general
                          readjustment or rescheduling of all or part
                          of  its   Indebtedness   which   it   would
                          otherwise  not be able  to pay as it  falls
                          due; or

                   (iii)  proposes or enters into any  composition or
                          other  arrangement  for the  benefit of its
                          creditors   generally   or  any   class  of
                          creditors; or

                   (iv)   takes  any  steps to  wind-up  or  dissolve
                          itself or file any  petition  or action for
                          relief under any bankruptcy,  insolvency or
                          moratorium law; or

             (h)   Insolvency proceedings: any proceedings are started for the
                   winding-up dissolution or reorganisation (otherwise than
                   while solvent  and on terms previously approved in writing
                   by the Banks) of any Group  Company (other than the TMG
                   Companies, any Non-Material Subsidiary or any Dormant
                   Subsidiary) except where such a winding-up petition is
                   discharged within 21 days of its presentation or a receiver,
                   administrative receiver, trustee, supervisor or similar
                   officer is appointed in respect of any Group Company
                   (other than the TMG Companies, any Non-Material Subsidiary
                   or any Dormant Subsidiary) or any material part of its
                   revenues and assets;

             (i)   Adjudication or appointment:  any  adjudication,  order
                   or, as the case may be, appointment is made under or in
                   relation  to  any  of the  proceedings  referred  to in
                   Clause 13.1(h); or

             (j)   Administrators:   a  petition  is   presented   for  an
                   administration  order  to be  made in  relation  to any
                   Group Company (other than any TMG Company, Non-Material
                   Subsidiary   or  Dormant   Subsidiary)   which  is  not
                   withdrawn  within 2 Business  Days of its  presentation
                   provided  that such 2 Business  Days grace period shall
                   not  apply if the  Court  abridges  the  notice  period
                   required  pursuant to Rule 2.7 of the Insolvency  Rules
                   1986; or

             (k)   Analogous  proceedings:  any event occurs or proceeding
                   is taken with respect to any member of the Group (other
                   than  a TMG  Company  a  Non-Material  Subsidiary  or a
                   Dormant  Subsidiary) in any jurisdiction to which it is
                   subject  which has an effect  equivalent  or similar to
                   any of the events mentioned in Clauses 13.1(h),  (i) or
                   (j)  and  which  would  result  in a  Material  Adverse
                   Effect; or

             (l)   Cessation of business:  any of the members of the Group
                   (other than the TMG Companies, any Non-Material Subsidiary
                   or any Dormant Subsidiary) suspends, ceases or threatens to
                   suspend or cease to carry on its business or sells, transfers
                   or otherwise disposes of in any one transaction or series of
                   transactions the whole or any substantial part of its assets
                   other than to a member of the Charging Group without the
                   prior written consent of the Banks where the same would
                   result in a Material Adverse Effect; or

             (m)   Change  of  control:  a  person  other  than any of the
                   Investors   (whether   alone  or   together   with  any
                   associated  person or persons)  becomes the  beneficial
                   owner  of  the  issued  share  capital  of  the  Parent
                   carrying a right to exercise  more than 50 per cent. of
                   the votes at a general  meeting of the Parent  (for the
                   purposes of this Clause "associated person" is a person
                   who is "acting in concert" (as defined in the City Code
                   on Takeovers and Mergers) with that person,

                   PROVIDED  that  any  action  taken  pursuant  to  or in
                   connection with the Ciba Geigy Agreement shall not be a
                   Default  unless  the same  results  in a Default  under
                   sub-Clauses (g)-(k) above.

13.2         Acceleration etc.

             At any time when any Default  remains  unremedied  and unwaived the
             Agent may with the agreement of the Majority Banks by notice to the
             Parent  cancel the  Revolving  Credit  Facility in whole or in part
             and:

             (i)         require  the   Borrowers   immediately   to  repay  the
                         Revolving  Loan and  repay or  provide  cash  cover for
                         contingent  liabilities  under the  Existing  Ancillary
                         Facilities  together with accrued  interest thereon and
                         immediately  to pay all other sums  payable  under this
                         Agreement,  whereupon the same shall become immediately
                         due and payable; or

             (ii)        place the  Revolving  Loan and the  Existing  Ancillary
                         Facilities on demand,  whereupon the same and all other
                         sums payable hereunder shall become repayable on demand
                         made by the Agent on the  instructions  of the Majority
                         Banks.

             Upon the  service  of any  such  notice  by the  Agent  the  Banks'
             obligations shall be terminated and each of the Banks'  Commitments
             shall be cancelled and reduced to zero.

13.3         Acceleration of Existing Facilities, Existing Ancillary Facilities
             or Bridging Facility

             During the period  between the date of this Agreement and the First
             Drawdown  Date,  the Banks  shall not make  demand  for any  amount
             outstanding under the Existing  Facilities,  the Existing Ancillary
             Facilities or the Bridging  Facility  unless (i) a Default  remains
             unremedied  and  unwaived  hereunder or (ii) either of the Investor
             Placing   Agreement  and  the  Shareholder   Placing  Agreement  is
             terminated  by any party  thereto or (iii)  either of the  Investor
             Placing  Agreement or the  Shareholder  Placing  Agreement fails to
             become unconditional in accordance with its respective terms by 4th
             September  1998 or such later date as may be agreed for  completion
             in accordance with its respective terms.

13.4         Appointment of receiver etc

             Notwithstanding  any of the provisions in the Security  neither the
             Agent nor the Banks shall be entitled to appoint an  administrative
             or other receiver or similar  officer over the whole or any part of
             the property,  assets and undertaking of any member of the Charging
             Group, or otherwise to enforce the Security,  unless there has been
             a  Default  and a demand  has been made by the  Agent  pursuant  to
             Clause 13.2.


14.          SET-OFF AND PRO-RATA PAYMENTS AND DEPOSIT ACCOUNT

14.1         Set-Off

             Each Borrower  hereby  authorises  the Agent and each Bank to apply
             any credit balance on any account of the relative Borrower with any
             of the Agent and the Banks (subject to Clause 14.2) in satisfaction
             of any sum due and payable by such  Borrower  pursuant to the terms
             of the Financing Documents.  For this purpose each of the Agent and
             the Banks is  authorised  to  purchase at its spot rate of exchange
             with the monies  standing  to the credit of any such  account  such
             other currencies as may be necessary to effect such application.

14.2         Deposit Account

14.2.1       Notwithstanding any of the provisions in any of the Security but
             subject to Clause 14.2.3 the Agent or FNBM (as the case may be)
             shall only be entitled to apply (whether by way of set-off
             consolidation or combination of accounts, enforcement of Security
             or otherwise) any monies standing to the credit of the Deposit
             Account, (or (a) HLS's account with FNBM or (b) any account of a
             Borrower with the Agent where such monies have been transferred
             from the Deposit Account for the general working capital
             requirements of HLS or any other Borrower (as the case may be) or
             (c) in the case of monies immediately required to meet payroll
             expenditure in the U.S.A. in an account with any other bank or
             financial institution) against any liabilities of the Borrowers to
             the Banks under the Financing Documents after either (i) the Agent
             has made demand for repayment in accordance with Clause 13.2
             and has appointed receivers (or in the case of HLS a similar
             officer) to the whole or substantially the whole of the property,
             assets and undertaking of any of the Borrowers or (ii) an
             administrator has been appointed to any of the Borrowers.

14.2.2       When a Default is outstanding the Agent shall have the right to
             refuse to allow any withdrawal from the Deposit Account and FNBM
             or the Agent shall have the right to refuse to allow withdrawals
             of monies transferred to HLS's account or any
             account of a Borrower with the Agent from the Deposit Account if
             (acting reasonably) the Agent or FNBM (as the case may be) is of
             the view that such  withdrawal is not being made in the ordinary
             course of business to fund bona fide payments required for the
             working capital purposes of the Group.  Neither the Agent nor FNBM
             shall otherwise have the right to restrict any transfer or
             withdrawal from the Deposit Account or of monies transferred to
             FNBM or any Borrower's account with the Agent from the Deposit
             Account in any such case for the general working capital
             requirements of the Group.

14.2.3       If any Borrower has  defaulted in making any payment due under this
             Agreement  in respect  of  interest  payable or fees,  the Agent is
             hereby irrevocably  authorised to transfer from the Deposit Account
             an amount equivalent to such unpaid amount in satisfaction thereof.

14.2.4       The Agent shall pay  interest  on the  Deposit  Account at the best
             available rates that it can reasonably  obtain for such amounts and
             periods as the Parent may specify.

14.3         Pro Rata Sharing

14.3.1       If any Bank (the "Sharing  Bank") shall at any time obtain (whether
             by way of voluntary or  involuntary  payment  right of set-off,  or
             otherwise)  a  proportion  in respect of its  Participation  in the
             Revolving  Credit  Facility  which is greater  than the  proportion
             obtained by the Bank or Banks  respectively  obtaining the smallest
             proportion of its  Participation  in the Revolving Credit Facility,
             including  a nil  receipt,  (the  amount so obtained by the Sharing
             Bank which  represents  such excess being herein called the "excess
             amount") then:

             (i)   the Sharing Bank shall  promptly pay to the Agent,  for
                   the account of the Banks, an amount equal to the excess
                   amount,  whereupon  the Agent shall notify the relative
                   Borrower of such amount and its receipt by the Agent;

             (ii)  the Agent  shall  treat  such  payment  as if it were a
                   payment  by the  relative  Borrower  on account of sums
                   owed to the Banks; and

             (iii) as between the Parent and the  Sharing  Bank the excess
                   amount shall be treated as not having been paid,  while
                   as between the  relative  Parent and each Bank it shall
                   be treated as having been paid to the extent any monies
                   are received by such Bank.

             If, because of the  liquidation  of any Borrower,  or for any other
             reason affecting any Borrower, the provisions of Clause (iii) above
             cannot be given  effect to as between the Banks on the one hand and
             the relative Borrower on the other hand then, as between the Banks,
             the  Sharing  Bank shall be treated as having  purchased  from each
             other  Bank an amount of the  Revolving  Loan owed by the  relative
             Borrower  to that Bank  which is equal to that  part of the  excess
             amount  which is paid to that  Bank  and the  Sharing  Bank  shall,
             accordingly,  be  entitled  to  receive  all  dividends  and  other
             payments  received  by that  Bank in  respect  of that  part of the
             Revolving Loan deemed to have been purchased by it.

14.3.2       Each Bank shall  forthwith  notify the Agent of any such receipt or
             recovery by it other than by payment through the Agent.

14.3.3       If any excess amount subsequently has to be wholly or partly
             refunded to a  Borrower by any Sharing Bank which has paid an
             amount equal thereto to the Agent under Clause 14.3.1, each Bank
             to which any part of that amount was distributed shall on request
             from the Sharing Bank repay to the Sharing Bank such Bank's pro
             rata share of the amount which has to be so refunded by the Sharing
             Bank.  Each Bank shall on request supply to the Agent such
             information as the Agent may from time to time request for the
             purpose of this Clause 14.3.  Notwithstanding the foregoing
             provisions of this Clause 14.3, no Sharing Bank shall be obliged to
             share any excess amount which it receives or recovers pursuant to
             legal proceedings taken by it to recover any sums owing to it
             under this Agreement with any other party which has a legal right
             to, but does not, either join in such proceedings or commence and
             diligently pursue separate proceedings to enforce its rights in the
             same or another court, unless the proceedings instituted by the
             Sharing Bank are instituted by it without prior notice having been
             given to such party through the Agent and an opportunity to such
             party to join in such proceedings.

14.3.4       Nothing  in this  Agreement  shall  oblige the Agent or any Bank to
             apply  any  credit  balance  or  other  benefit  received  from any
             Borrower  against the  liabilities  of the relative  Borrower under
             this Agreement in priority to any other liabilities of the relative
             Borrower to the Agent or that Bank.


15.          THE AGENT AND THE BANKS

15.1         Appointment and Duties

15.1.1       Each Bank hereby irrevocably appoints the Agent to act as its agent
             in  connection  with the  administration  of the  Revolving  Credit
             Facility and to act as its agent and trustee in connection with the
             Security and for such purposes irrevocably  authorises the Agent to
             take such action and to exercise and carry out all the discretions,
             authorities,   rights,   powers  and  duties  as  are  specifically
             delegated to the Agent in this Agreement and each Security Document
             together  with  such  powers  and  discretions  as  are  incidental
             thereto.

15.1.2       The Agent shall have no duties or responsibilities except those
             expressly set out in the Financing Documents.  As to any matters
             not expressly provided for by this Agreement, save in respect of
             the Security, the Agent shall, subject to the provisions hereof or
             thereof, act hereunder or thereunder or in connection herewith or
             therewith in accordance with the instructions of the Banks (but in
             the absence of any such instructions shall not be obliged to act)
             and any such instructions and any action taken by the Agent in
             accordance therewith shall be binding upon all the Banks.

15.2         Payments and Information Received

15.2.1       The Agent will promptly account to the Lending Office of each Bank
             for such Bank's due proportion of all sums received by the Agent
             for such Bank's account, whether by way of repayment or prepayment
             of principal or payment of interest, fees or otherwise.  The Agent
             shall provide the Banks with all information and copies of all
             notices which by the terms of this Agreement are to be provided or
             given to the Banks.  The Agent may retain for its own use and
             benefit (and shall not be liable to account to any of the Banks
             for all or any part of) any sums received by it by way of agency
             or management or arrangement fees or by way of reimbursement
             of expenses incurred by it.

15.2.2       The Agent shall maintain a memorandum account showing the principal
             amount of each  Revolving  Advance  for the time being  outstanding
             under this Agreement and the amount of each Bank's Participation in
             the Revolving Credit Facility from time to time.

15.2.3       Each Bank  confirms  in favour of the Agent that unless it notifies
             the Agent to the contrary it shall be the  beneficial  owner of any
             interest paid to it under this Agreement.

15.3         Defaults

             The Agent  shall  not be  obliged  to take any  steps to  ascertain
             whether any Default (other than a default in repayment of principal
             or in payment of interest,  fees or other sums due pursuant to this
             Agreement) or Default  Occurrence has happened or exists and, until
             the Agent shall have received  express  notice to the contrary from
             any  Borrower  or any Bank,  the Agent  shall be entitled to assume
             that no Default (other than as aforesaid) or Default Occurrence has
             happened  or exists.  Upon  receipt of such  notice the Agent shall
             promptly inform the Banks.

15.4         Assumptions

             The  Agent  shall  be  entitled  to  rely on any  communication  or
             document  believed by it to be genuine and correct and to have been
             communicated  or signed by the  person  by whom it  purports  to be
             communicated  or  signed  and  shall  not be  liable  to any of the
             parties  to  this  Agreement  for any of the  consequences  of such
             reliance.

15.5         Legal Proceedings

             The Agent shall not be obliged to take or commence any legal action
             or proceeding  against any Borrower or any other person arising out
             of or in  connection  with the Financing  Documents  until it shall
             have been  indemnified or secured to its  satisfaction  against any
             and all costs, claims and expenses (including,  but not limited to,
             any costs  award  which may be made  against  it as a result of any
             such legal action or proceeding not being  successful) which it may
             expend or incur in such legal action or proceeding.

15.6         No Liability

             Neither  the Agent nor any of its  directors,  employees  or agents
             shall be liable to the Banks for any action  taken or omitted to be
             taken  by it or  any  of  them  under  or in  connection  with  the
             Financing  Documents unless caused by its or their gross negligence
             or wilful  misconduct.  The Agent shall not be  responsible  to the
             Banks for any  statements,  representations  or  warranties  in the
             Financing Documents or for any information  supplied or provided or
             hereafter  to be  supplied  or  provided to any of the Banks by the
             Agent,  in respect of the  Borrowers or any other person or for any
             other  matter  relating  to  the  Revolving  Credit  Facility,  the
             Security  or  for  the   execution,   effectiveness,   genuineness,
             validity, enforceability or sufficiency of such documents or any of
             the  other  documents  referred  to herein  or  therein  or for the
             recoverability  of all or any of the  Advances  or any of the other
             sums to become due and payable pursuant hereto.

15.7         Credit Decisions

15.7.1       Each  Bank  acknowledges  that it has,  independently  and  without
             reliance on the Agent and based on such  documents and  information
             as it deemed appropriate,  made its own analysis of the transaction
             contemplated  by, and reached its own decision to enter into,  this
             Agreement and made its own investigation of the financial condition
             and  affairs  of  each of the  Borrowers  and  any  surety  for the
             Borrowers'    obligations    and   its   own   appraisal   of   the
             creditworthiness of the Borrowers and any surety for the Borrower's
             obligations.

15.7.2       Save as specifically  provided herein, the Agent shall not be under
             any duty or obligation,  either initially or on a continuing basis,
             to  provide  any  Bank  with  any  credit   information   or  other
             information  with respect to the financial  condition of any of the
             Borrowers or which is otherwise  relevant to the  Revolving  Credit
             Facility.

15.7.3       Each  Bank  further   acknowledges   and  confirms  that  it  will,
             independently  and without  reliance on the Agent and based on such
             documents and information as it shall deem appropriate at the time,
             make its own  decisions  in taking or not taking  action  under the
             Financing Documents.

15.8         Advisers

             The Agent shall be entitled to obtain and rely on the advice of any
             professional  advisers  selected by it given in connection with the
             Financing  Documents or any of the matters  contemplated  hereby or
             thereby, and shall not be liable to any of the Banks for any of the
             consequences of such reliance.

15.9         Relationship with Banks

15.9.1       In performing  its functions and duties under this  Agreement,  the
             Agent  shall  act  solely  as the  agent  for the Banks and save as
             expressly  provided  herein and in the Security shall not be deemed
             to be acting  as  trustee  for any Bank and shall not  assume or be
             deemed to have assumed any  obligation  as agent or trustee for, or
             any relationship of agency or trust with any Borrower.

15.9.2       Neither  the Agent nor any Bank  shall be under  any  liability  or
             responsibility  of any  kind to any  Borrower  or any of the  other
             Banks  arising  out of or in  relation  to any  failure or delay in
             performance  or breach  by any other  Bank or Banks or, as the case
             may be, any Borrower of any of its or their respective  obligations
             pursuant to the Financing Documents.

15.10        Agent's position as a Bank

             With  respect  to its own  Participation  in the  Revolving  Credit
             Facility, the Agent shall have the same rights and powers under and
             in respect of the  Financing  Documents  as though it were not also
             acting as agent for the Banks. The Agent may, without  liability to
             account,  accept deposits from, lend money to and generally  engage
             in any kind of  banking  or trust  business  with or for any of the
             Borrowers  as if it were not the agent or the trustee for the Banks
             under any Financing Document.

15.11        Indemnity

             The  Banks  agree  to  indemnify  the  Agent  (to  the  extent  not
             reimbursed  by the  Borrowers)  rateably  according  to the  Banks'
             respective  Participations in the Revolving Credit Facility (or, if
             no Revolving  Advance shall then be outstanding,  their  respective
             Commitments) from and against any and all liabilities, obligations,
             losses,  damages,  penalties,  actions,  judgments,  suits,  costs,
             expenses and disbursements of any kind or nature whatsoever (except
             in respect of any agency, management or other fee due to the Agent)
             which may be imposed on, incurred by or asserted  against the Agent
             in its  capacity  as agent or  trustee  for the Banks or in any way
             relating to or arising out of the Financing Documents or any action
             taken or omitted by the Agent in enforcing or preserving the rights
             of the Banks under the Financing  Documents,  provided that no Bank
             shall be liable for any portion of such  liabilities,  obligations,
             losses,  damages,  penalties,  actions,  judgments,  suits,  costs,
             expenses  or   disbursements   resulting  from  the  Agent's  gross
             negligence or wilful misconduct.

15.12        Resignation

15.12.1      Subject to the  appointment  and acceptance of a successor Agent as
             provided  below,  the Agent may resign at any time by giving to the
             Parent  and each of the Banks not less than 60 days'  notice of its
             intention to do so. Upon receipt of such notice of resignation  the
             Banks  shall  appoint  as  successor  Agent  any bank or  financial
             institution  selected  by the Parent and the Banks which is willing
             and able to act as such agent for the Banks.

15.12.2      If no such  successor  Agent  selected  by the Parent and the Banks
             shall  have  accepted  such  appointment  within 20 days  after the
             Agent's  giving  of  notice of  resignation  then the  Banks  after
             consultation with the Parent shall have the right to appoint such a
             successor Agent.

15.12.3      If no such  successor  Agent  shall have been so  appointed  by the
             Banks and shall have accepted such appointment within 40 days after
             the  Agent's  giving of notice of  resignation  then the  resigning
             Agent  may,  after  consultation  with the  Parent,  appoint as its
             successor  any reputable and  experienced  bank or other  financial
             institution with an office in London.

15.12.4      Any such appointment shall take effect upon notice thereof (which
             notice shall specify the bank in London to which payments shall be
             made thereafter) being given to the Parent and each Bank.
             Thereafter, the resigning Agent shall be discharged from any
             further obligation under the Financing Documents and its successor
             and each of the other parties hereto and thereto shall have the
             same rights and obligations inter se as they would have had if
             such successor had been a party to the Financing Documents in
             place of the resigning Agent.  The resigning Agent shall make over
             to its successor all such records as its successor requires to
             carry out its duties.

15.13        Change of Office

             The Agent may from time to time in its sole  discretion  by written
             notice to the Parent and each Bank designate a different  office in
             the  United  Kingdom  from  which  its  duties  as the  Agent  will
             thereafter be performed.

15.14        Scope of Duties

             The  Agent  may  grant  waivers,  vary the  terms of the  Financing
             Documents  and do or  omit  to do  all  such  acts  and  things  in
             connection  therewith as may (unless otherwise provided  hereunder)
             be  authorised in writing by the Majority  Banks.  Any such waiver,
             variation,  act or omission so authorised and effected by the Agent
             shall be binding  on all the Banks and the Agent  shall be under no
             liability  whatsoever  in  respect  of any  such  waiver,  consent,
             variation, act or omission. Except with the prior written agreement
             of all the  Banks,  nothing  in this  Clause  shall  authorise  (as
             between  the Agent  and the  Banks)  (i) any  change in the rate at
             which any  interest  on the  Revolving  Loan is payable  under this
             Agreement, (ii) any extension of the date for, or alteration in the
             amount or currency of, the payment of any principal, interest, fees
             or any  other  amount  payable  under  this  Agreement,  (iii)  any
             increase in any Bank's Commitment, (iv) any variation of Clauses 6,
             7 or 13 and this Clause 15 or (vi) any provision of this  Agreement
             which requires the consent of all the Banks.

15.15        Consents

             The Agent may at any time upon the  application  and at the cost of
             the Parent and without any consent of any of the Banks (only if and
             so far as in its  reasonable  opinion  the  interests  of the Banks
             shall  not be  materially  prejudiced  thereby)  give any  consent,
             approval  or licence  required of the Agent under the terms of this
             Agreement,  save where this Agreement  expressly requires that such
             consent, approval or licence should be given only with the approval
             of, or on the instructions of, the Banks.

15.16        Evidence

             The Agent may accept a  certificate  signed by any  director or the
             secretary of the Parent as to any fact or matter on which the Agent
             may need or wish to be satisfied as sufficient evidence thereof and
             a like  certificate that any assets in the opinion of the person so
             certifying have a particular  value or produce a particular  income
             or are  suitable for a particular  purpose as  sufficient  evidence
             that they have that value or produce that income or are so suitable
             and the  Agent  shall  not be bound  in any  such  case to call for
             further  evidence  or be  responsible  for  any  loss  that  may be
             occasioned by its failing to do so.

15.17        Security

15.17.1      The Agent shall accept without investigation, requisition or
             objection such title as any person may have to the undertaking,
             property and assets which are subject to the Security and shall
             not be bound or concerned to examine or enquire into nor be liable
             for any defect or failure in the title of any person whether such
             defect or failure was known to the Agent or might have been
             discovered upon examination or enquiry and whether capable of
             remedy or not nor for any failure on the part of the Agent to give
             notice to any third party of the Security to which it is party
             or otherwise perfect or register the security thereby created.

15.17.2      The Agent  shall hold the  benefit of the  Security  upon trust for
             itself and the Banks.

15.17.3      Each of the Banks hereby  confirms and agrees that it does not wish
             to  be  registered  in  accordance   with  Rule  146  of  the  Land
             Registration  Rules 1925 as the joint proprietor of any mortgage or
             charge created  pursuant to any Financing  Document and accordingly
             authorises  the Agent to hold such  mortgage  or charge in its sole
             name as agent and  trustee for the Banks and hereby  requests  H.M.
             Land  Registry to register the Agent as the sole  proprietor of any
             such mortgage or charge.


16.          FEES AND EXPENSES

16.1         Expenses

             The  Borrowers  shall,  on  demand,  pay  all  reasonable  expenses
             (including,  but not limited to, legal,  valuation  and  accounting
             fees and, in relation to (i) and (ii) below, to the extent the same
             are reasonable) and any VAT thereon incurred by:

             (i)         the Agent and the Banks in connection with the granting
                         of any release, waiver or consent or in connection with
                         any variation of any Financing Document; and

             (ii)        the  Agent  and the  Banks  in  enforcing,  perfecting,
                         protecting or preserving  (or  attempting so to do) any
                         of their rights,  or in suing for or recovering any sum
                         due from any of the Borrowers or any other person under
                         any Financing Document.

16.2         Agency Fees

             The Parent shall pay to the Agent agency fees of  (pound)4,000  per
             annum  payable  in advance  on the First  Drawdown  Date and on the
             first  anniversary  of the First  Drawdown  Date.  In addition  the
             Parent shall pay a fee of  (pound)250  for each drawdown or renewal
             of a Revolving  Advance  such fee to be payable  annually in arrear
             within 7 days of receipt by the Parent of an invoice for such fees.

16.3         Non-Utilisation Fee

             The Parent shall pay a commitment  fee to the Agent for the account
             of the Banks (pro-rata to their undrawn  Commitment) at the rate of
             0.25 per cent.  per annum on the  difference  between (i) the Total
             Commitments  and (ii) the  average  aggregate  during the period in
             question of the amount of all Revolving Advances outstanding during
             that period. Such fee shall accrue day to day on the basis of a 365
             day  year  and  the  number  of days  elapsed  in  respect  of each
             successive  period  of 6 months  from the First  Drawdown  Date and
             shall be paid in arrear on the first  Business Day after the end of
             each such  period  and on the date when the Total  Commitments  are
             reduced to zero.

16.4         Participation Fee

16.4.1       On the  First  Drawdown  Date the  Parent  shall  pay the Agent (on
             behalf of the Banks) a participation  fee of  (pound)122,500  to be
             shared  between  the  Banks in  accordance  with  their  Commitment
             Percentages. If for any period a Bank is in breach of an obligation
             to fund a Revolving Advance hereunder,  the participation fee shall
             not accrue to such Bank during such period.

16.4.2       On the first  anniversary  of the First  Drawdown  Date the  Parent
             shall  pay  the  Agent   (on   behalf  of  the   Banks)  a  further
             participation  fee of (pound)127,500 to be shared between the Banks
             in accordance with the Commitment Percentages.

16.5         Documentary Taxes Indemnity

             All stamp, documentary, registration or other like duties or Taxes,
             including any penalties,  additions,  fines, surcharges or interest
             relating  thereto,  (other than any arising from any  assignment or
             transfer by a Bank  pursuant  to Clause  19.3) which are imposed or
             chargeable on or in connection  with any of this  Agreement and the
             Security  shall be paid by the  Borrowers  PROVIDED  THAT the Agent
             shall be  entitled  but not obliged to pay any such duties or Taxes
             (whether or not they are its primary responsibility), whereupon the
             Borrowers shall on demand  indemnify the Agent against those duties
             or Taxes and  against  any costs and  expenses  so  incurred by the
             Agent in discharging them.

16.6         VAT

16.6.1       All payments  made by the Borrowers  under the Financing  Documents
             are  calculated  without  regard to Value  Added  Tax.  If any such
             payment  constitutes the whole or any part of the consideration for
             a taxable or deemed taxable supply  (whether that supply is taxable
             pursuant to the exercise of an option or otherwise) by the Agent or
             a Bank,  the amount of that payment shall be increased by an amount
             equal to the  amount  of Value  Added Tax  which is  chargeable  in
             respect of the taxable supply in question.

16.6.2       No payment or other  consideration  to be made or  furnished by the
             Agent or a Bank, to the Borrowers pursuant to or in connection with
             the Financing Documents or any transaction or document contemplated
             therein  may be  increased  or  added to by  reference  to (or as a
             result of any  increase  in the rate of) any Value  Added Tax which
             shall be or may become chargeable in respect of any taxable supply.


17.          SEVERABILITY, WAIVERS, REMEDIES CUMULATIVE

17.1         Severance

             If at any  time  any  provision  of this  Agreement  is or  becomes
             illegal,  invalid or  unenforceable in any respect under the law of
             any jurisdiction  neither the legality,  validity or enforceability
             of the remaining  provisions  hereof nor the legality,  validity or
             enforceability  of  such  provision  under  the  law of  any  other
             jurisdiction shall in any way be affected or impaired thereby.

17.2         Waivers

             No failure to exercise, nor any delay in exercising, on the part of
             the Agent or any Banks, any right or remedy hereunder shall operate
             as a waiver  thereof,  nor shall any single or partial  exercise of
             any right or remedy prevent any further or other  exercise  thereof
             or the  exercise  of any other  right or  remedy.  The  rights  and
             remedies  herein  provided are  cumulative and not exclusive of any
             rights or remedies provided by law.


18.          NOTICES

18.1         Method

             Each  communication  to be made hereunder  shall be made in writing
             but, unless otherwise stated, may be made by facsimile transmission
             or letter.

18.2         Delivery

             Any  communication  (including  any  notice  to be  made  or  given
             hereunder)  or  document to be made or  delivered  by one person to
             another  pursuant to this Agreement shall (unless the one has by 15
             days' written  notice to the other  specified  another  address) be
             made  or  delivered  to  that  other  person,  in the  case  of the
             Borrowers and the Agent at the respective addresses given in Clause
             18.3, in the case of the Banks at the respective addresses given in
             Schedule 1 or, as the case may be,  the  Schedule  of the  relative
             Transfer Certificate.

18.3         Addresses

             The addresses referred to in Clause 18.2 above are:

             (A)     the Borrowers:

                     c/o Huntingdon Life Sciences Group PLC
                     Woolley Road
                     Alconbury
                     Huntingdon
                     Cambridgeshire PE17 5HF

                     Attention:  The Company Secretary and the Finance Director
                     Fax:        (01480) 892195

             (B) the Agent:

                   National Westminster Bank Plc
                   3rd Floor
                   Juno Court
                   24 Prescott Street
                   London E1 8BB

                   Attention:  Head of NWM Agency Group
                   Fax:        (0171) 714 6167

18.4         Deemed Receipt

             Any notice given by the Agent or a Borrower shall be deemed to have
been received:

             (a)  if sent by facsimile transmission, one Business Day after the
                  day it was transmitted;

             (b)  in the case of a written notice lodged by hand, at the time of
                  actual delivery; or

             (c)  if posted, on the second Business Day following the day
                  on which it was properly despatched by first class mail
                  postage prepaid.

18.5         Notices to the Banks

             Any  notice to be given by a  Borrower  to the Banks or any of them
             may be given by serving  such notice on the Agent  together  with a
             written  instruction that such notice is to be treated as notice to
             one or  more  specified  Banks.  In the  absence  of  such  written
             instructions it shall be deemed to be a notice to the Agent alone.


19.          ASSIGNMENTS AND TRANSFERS

19.1         Benefit of Agreement

             This  Agreement  shall be binding  upon and enure to the benefit of
             each party hereto and its successors and assigns.

19.2         Assignments and Transfers by the Borrowers

             No Borrower  shall be entitled to assign or transfer  all or any of
             its rights, benefits and obligations under this Agreement.

19.3         Assignments and Transfers by Banks

19.3.1       Any Bank may at any time  (after the First  Drawdown  Date (but not
             otherwise)) transfer in accordance with Clause 19.3.3 below all but
             not part only of its rights,  benefits and obligations under any of
             the Financing Documents to any person.

19.3.2       If any Bank assigns all of its rights and benefits under any of the
             Financing  Documents in accordance with Clause 19.3.1 above,  then,
             unless and until the assignee has confirmed to the Agent, the other
             Banks and the Borrowers that it shall be under the same obligations
             towards  each of them as it would  have been under if it had been a
             party  hereto  as a  Bank,  the  Agent,  the  other  Banks  and the
             Borrowers shall not be obliged to recognise such assignee as having
             the rights  against  each of them which it would have had if it had
             been such a party hereto.

19.3.3       If any Bank (the  "Existing  Bank")  wishes to transfer  all of its
             Commitment or  Participation  in the Revolving  Credit  Facility to
             another bank, financial  institution or other person or entity (the
             "Bank  Transferee"),  such  transfer  may be  effected  by way of a
             novation by the delivery to, and the  execution  by, the Agent of a
             duly completed Transfer Certificate.

19.3.4       On the date specified in the Transfer Certificate:

             (i)         to the  extent  that in the  Transfer  Certificate  the
                         Existing  Bank  seeks to  transfer  its  Commitment  or
                         Participation  in the Revolving  Credit  Facility,  the
                         Borrowers  and the Existing Bank shall each be released
                         from  further  obligations  to each  other  under  this
                         Agreement  and their  respective  rights  against  each
                         other shall be cancelled  (such rights and  obligations
                         being  referred to in this Clause 19.3.4 as "Discharged
                         Rights and Obligations");

             (ii)        the Borrowers and the Bank Transferee shall each assume
                         obligations  towards each other and/or  acquire  rights
                         against  each other which  differ  from the  Discharged
                         Rights and  Obligations  only insofar as the  Borrowers
                         and the Bank  Transferee  have assumed and/or  acquired
                         the  same in place of the  Borrowers  and the  Existing
                         Bank;

             (iii)       the Agent,  the Borrowers,  the Bank Transferee and the
                         other  Banks  shall  acquire the same rights and assume
                         the same  obligations  among  themselves  as they would
                         have acquired and assumed had the Bank  Transferee been
                         a party  hereunder as a Bank with the rights and/or the
                         obligations  acquired  or  assumed by it as a result of
                         the transfer; and

             (iv)        a proportion  of the Existing  Bank's  rights under the
                         Security,  equal  to the  proportion  of  the  Existing
                         Bank's rights under this Agreement  being  transferred,
                         shall   automatically   be   transferred  to  the  Bank
                         Transferee.

19.3.5       The Agent will promptly complete  Transfer  Certificates on request
             by an Existing  Bank and upon  payment by such  Existing  Bank of a
             (pound)750  fee to the Agent.  Each  Borrower and each of the Banks
             hereby  irrevocably   authorise  the  Agent  to  execute  any  duly
             completed  Transfer  Certificate  on its behalf  provided that such
             authorisation  does  not  extend  to the  execution  of a  Transfer
             Certificate  on  behalf  of either  the  Existing  Bank or the Bank
             Transferee named therein.

19.3.6       The Agent  shall  promptly  notify  the Parent of the  receipt  and
             execution on its behalf by the Agent of any Transfer Certificate.

19.3.7       The  Borrowers  shall  be under no  obligation  to pay any  greater
             amount under this Agreement  following an assignment or transfer by
             a Bank  of  any  of  its  rights  or  obligations  pursuant  to the
             foregoing provisions of this Clause 19 if such greater amount would
             not have been payable but for the assignment or transfer.

19.3.8       When a Bank  assigns or  transfers  part of its rights and benefits
             hereunder it shall assign or transfer, as the case may be, the same
             percentage of its rights and benefits in relation to each Facility.

19.4         Disclosure of Information

             The Agent and the Banks may disclose any  information  furnished or
             made  available to them  hereunder by the  Borrowers to each other,
             their  professional   advisers  and  to  any  actual  or  potential
             assignee,  transferee or  sub-participant  subject to the condition
             (except where such  information  is available in the public domain)
             that each of the same  executes  in favour of the  Parent a written
             confidentiality  undertaking agreeing to keep confidential any such
             information.


20.          CURRENCY INDEMNITY

20.1         Any payment  made to or for the account of or received by the Agent
             or any Bank in respect of any moneys or liabilities due, arising or
             incurred  by the  Borrowers  to the Agent or any Bank in a currency
             (the  "Currency of  Payment")  other than the currency in which the
             payment  should have been made under this  Agreement (the "Currency
             of Obligation") in whatever circumstances (including as a result of
             a judgment  against the  Borrowers)  and for whatever  reason shall
             constitute a discharge to the  Borrowers  only to the extent of the
             Currency of Obligation  amount which the Agent or that Bank, as the
             case may be, is able on the date of receipt of such  payment (or if
             such date of receipt is not a Business Day, on the next  succeeding
             Business  Day) to purchase  with the Currency of Payment  amount at
             its spot rate of exchange (as conclusively  determined by the Agent
             or that Bank) in the London foreign exchange market.

20.2         If the amount of the Currency of Obligation which the Agent or that
             Bank is so able to purchase  falls  short of the amount  originally
             due to the  Agent or that  Bank,  as the case  may be,  under  this
             Agreement, then the Borrowers shall immediately on demand indemnify
             the Agent or that  Bank,  as the case may be,  against  any loss or
             damage arising as a result of that shortfall by paying to the Agent
             or that Bank,  as the case may be, that  amount in the  Currency of
             Obligation certified by the Agent or that Bank, as the case may be,
             as necessary so to indemnify it.

20.2         General

20.2.1       Each  indemnity  in this Clause 20 shall  constitute a separate and
             independent obligation from the other obligations contained in this
             Agreement,  shall give rise to a separate and independent  cause of
             action,  shall apply  irrespective  of any indulgence  granted from
             time  to  time  and  shall   continue  in  full  force  and  effect
             notwithstanding  any judgment or order for a liquidated sum or sums
             in respect of amounts  due under this  Agreement  or under any such
             judgment or order.

20.2.2       The  certificate of the Agent or the relevant Bank as to the amount
             of any  loss  or  damage  sustained  or  incurred  by it  shall  be
             conclusive  and binding on the  Borrowers  except for any  manifest
             error.


21.          PRIORITIES

21.1         Priority Order

21.1.1       It is hereby  agreed by and between  the parties to this  Agreement
             that on  enforcement  of the  Security  the Net  Proceeds  shall be
             applied:

             (i)         first, in discharge of the Priority Obligations; and

             (ii) second, in discharge of the NatWest Obligations.

21.1.2       The  Security  is a  continuing  security  and the  ranking  of the
             Priority Obligations and the NatWest Obligations as provided for in
             this  Agreement  shall not be  affected by any  fluctuation  in the
             amounts  from  time  to  time of the  Priority  Obligations  or the
             NatWest  Obligations  or by the  existence  at any time of a credit
             balance on any current or other accounts.

21.1.3       For the  avoidance of doubt it is  confirmed  that the moneys owing
             and obligations and other liabilities of the Borrowers to the Banks
             and the Agent  under this  Agreement  in  respect  of the  Priority
             Obligations  shall  rank  pari  passu in all  respects  and that on
             enforcement  the Net Proceeds shall be shared between the Banks pro
             rata on the basis of their respective Participation Percentages.

21.2         Co-Operation

             The Agent and the Banks shall  co-operate to ensure that any moneys
             in  the  hands  of a  receiver  appointed  pursuant  to  any of the
             Security are distributed in a manner consistent with the provisions
             of this Agreement.


22.          ANNOUNCEMENTS

             Without  the  consent of the Agent  (acting on behalf of all of the
             Banks),  none of the  parties  to this  Agreement  shall  make  any
             statement  or public  announcement  to the press or other  media in
             connection with any matters referred to in this Agreement, save for
             any such  announcement or disclosure that may be required by law or
             recognised Stock Exchange Rules or is contained in the Circular, or
             in respect of information is in the public domain.


23.          CONFLICT

23.1         If and to the extent of any conflict between the provisions of this
             Agreement and those of any other Financing  Document,  the terms of
             this Agreement shall prevail.

23.2         For the  avoidance of doubt,  principal  interest and other amounts
             outstanding  hereunder may only be demanded in accordance  with the
             terms of this Agreement.

23.3         Any consent  which may have been given in relation to any Financing
             Document other than this  Agreement  shall remain in full force and
             effect.

23.4         For the  avoidance of doubt,  the Agent and the Banks  confirm that
             any breach of Clause 6 of the guarantee  and debenture  between the
             Agent and the Parent as a result of the payment of the  Transaction
             Proceeds into the Deposit Account is hereby waived.

23.5         The  Agent  and HLS agree  that  they  shall  within 21 days of the
             signing of this  Agreement  execute such  instruments or agreements
             supplemental  to such of the  Security  Documents to which HLS is a
             party which are  existing as at the date of this  Agreement  as are
             necessary  in order to limit  the  Agent's  or the  Banks'  rights,
             remedies and powers under those  Security  Documents in  accordance
             with, and so as to reflect,  the provisions of this Agreement.  For
             the  avoidance  of  doubt  the  failure  by  HLS  to  execute  such
             instruments or agreements  within such 21 day period shall not be a
             Default or a Default Occurence.

23.6         For the  avoidance of doubt,  subject to the  provisions  of Clause
             13.3,  the  Existing  Facilities  shall  continue to be provided in
             accordance with their terms until the First Drawdown Date.


24.          LAW AND JURISDICTION

24.1         Law

             This Agreement  shall be governed by, and construed in all respects
             in accordance with, English law.

24.2         Jurisdiction

24.2.1       The  courts of  England  shall  have  jurisdiction  to  settle  any
             disputes  which  may  arise  out  of or  in  connection  with  this
             Agreement.

24.2.2       Subject to the following  proviso  Clause 24.2.1 is for the benefit
             of the Agent and the Banks  only and is  without  prejudice  to the
             right of the Agent and each Bank to bring any proceedings  relating
             to this  Agreement  in any  other  court  which  has  jurisdiction.
             PROVIDED THAT the Borrowers may bring proceedings  against any Bank
             in any court of the jurisdiction in which it is incorporated or has
             its main place of business.

24.2.3 For the purposes of this Agreement each Borrower and each Bank hereby:

             (i)     waives any objections on the grounds of venue or forum
                     non conveniens or any similar grounds; and

             (ii)    consents  to service of process by mail or in any other
                     manner permitted by the relevant law.


IN WITNESS  whereof the parties  hereto  have caused this  Agreement  to be duly
executed on the date set out above.


<PAGE>


                                   SCHEDULE 1

                                    THE BANKS


         Bank and Lending                     Commitment (pound)    Commitment
         Office                                                     Percentage

1.       National Westminster Bank Plc        12,224,998             49.898


         Address for Notices

         King's Cross House
         11th Floor, Phase I
         200 Pentonville Road
         London N1 9HL

         Attention:   Steve Hamilton
         Telephone:   (0171) 239 8327
         Fax:         (0171) 239 8945


2.       The First National Bank                6,971,324             28.454
         of Maryland

         Address for Notices

         25 South Charles Street
         14th Floor
         Baltimore
         MD 21201
         United States of America

         Attention:   Ronald C Lapointe
         Telephone    (410) 244 4089
         Fax:         (410) 244 4295


3.       Comerica Bank                           5,303,678             21.648

         Address for Notices

         PO Box 75000
         Detroit
         MI 48275-3329
         United States of America

         Attention:   Henry J Hajdas
         Telephone:   (313) 222 6360
         Fax:         (313) 222 5706



<PAGE>


                                   SCHEDULE 2

                                 DRAWDOWN NOTICE


To:          National Westminster Bank Plc
             3rd Floor
             Juno Court
             25 Prescott Street
             London  E1 8BB


                                                                  Date

Dear Sirs,

Facilities Agreement dated [*] August 1998 made between Huntingdon Life Sciences
Group plc,  Huntingdon  Life Sciences  Limited,  Huntingdon  Life Sciences Inc.,
certain banks and you as agent (the "Facilities Agreement").

We hereby give you notice of the  following  proposed  borrowing  of a Revolving
Advance under the Facilities  Agreement.  Words and expressions  defined therein
shall have the same meanings when used herein.

1.           Facility:
2.           Amount of Revolving Advance:
4.           Purpose:
5.           Proposed Drawdown Date:
6.           Duration of Interest Period:
7.           Payment Instructions:


SIGNED


For and on behalf of
HUNTINGDON LIFE SCIENCES GROUP plc



<PAGE>


                                   SCHEDULE 3

                               MANDATORY COST RATE


The  Mandatory  Cost Rate is an  addition  to the  interest  rate on a Revolving
Advance to compensate the Banks for the cost attributable to a Revolving Advance
resulting from the imposition from time to time under or pursuant to the Bank of
England Act 1988 (the "Act") and/or by the Bank of England  and/or the Financial
Services Authority (the "FSA") (or other United Kingdom governmental authorities
or  agencies) of a  requirement  to place  Special  Deposits  (whether  interest
bearing or not) with the Bank of England  and/or pay fees to the FSA  calculated
by reference to liabilities used to fund the Revolving Advance.

The Mandatory Cost Rate shall be the rate determined by the Agent to be equal to
the arithmetic means (rounded upward, if necessary,  to 4 decimal places) as the
rate resulting from the application of the following formula:

[OBJECT OMITTED]

where, in each case, on the day of application of a formula:

X       is the percentage of Eligible  Liabilities (in excess of any stated
        minimum)  by  reference  to which  the Agent is  required  under or
        pursuant to the Act to maintain  cash ratio  deposits with the Bank
        of England;

F       is the rate of charge equal to the average of the respective  rates
        of charge  notified  to the Agent by each Bank as being  payable by
        that Bank to the FSA  pursuant  to  paragraph  2.02 or 2.03 (as the
        case may be) of the Fees  Regulations (but where, for this purpose,
        the figures at  paragraph  2.02b and 2.03b of the Fees  Regulations
        shall be deemed to be zero) and  expressed  in pounds per  (pound)1
        million of the Fee Base of that Bank;

L       is the BBA Sterling LIBOR rate quoted at or about 11.00 a.m.
        (London time) on  Telerate (now at page 3750) on that day;

S       is the level of interest bearing Special  Deposits,  expressed as a
        percentage of Eligible Liabilities,  which the Agent is required to
        maintain  by  the  Bank  of  England  (or  other   United   Kingdom
        governmental authorities or agencies); and

D       is the percentage rate per annum payable by the Bank of England to the
        Agent on Special Deposits.

(X,  L, S and D  shall  be  expressed  in the  formula  as  numbers  and  not as
percentages, e.g. if X = 0.15% and L = 7%, XL will be calculated as 0.15 x 7 and
not as 0.15% x 7%. A negative result obtained from subtracting D from L shall be
counted as zero.).

Each Bank shall  supply  such  information  and in such  detail as the Agent may
require for the purposes of calculating the above formulae. If any Bank fails to
notify  any rate or  figures  to the  Agent,  the  Mandatory  Cost Rate shall be
determined on the basis of the rate(s) or figure(s) notified to the Agent by the
remaining Bank(s).

The Mandatory Cost Rate  attributable  to an Revolving  Advance or other sum for
any period shall be calculated at or about 11.00 a.m. (London time) on the first
day of that period for the duration of that period.

The determination of the Mandatory Cost Rate in relation to any period shall, in
the absence of manifest  error, be conclusive and binding on the Parties to this
Agreement.

If there is any change in circumstance  (including the imposition of alternative
or additional requirements) which in the reasonable opinion of the Agent renders
or will render the above formula (or any element of the formula,  or any defined
term used in the formula)  inappropriate or  inapplicable,  the Agent (following
consultation with the Borrower and the Majority Banks) shall be entitled to vary
the same by giving notice to the Parties to this  Agreement.  Any such variation
shall,  in the  absence of  manifest  error,  be  conclusive  and binding on the
Parties  to this  Agreement  and shall  apply  from the date  specified  in such
notice.

For the purposes of this Schedule:

"Eligible  Liabilities" and "Special  Deposits" have the meanings given to those
terms  under  or  pursuant  to the  Act or by the  Bank  of  England  (as may be
appropriate), on the day of the application of the formula.

"Fee Base" has the meaning  given to that term for the purposes of, and shall be
calculated in accordance with, the Fees Regulations.

"Fees Regulations" means, as appropriate, either:

(a)     the Banking Supervision (Fees) Regulations 1998; or

(b)     such regulations as from time to time may be in force,  relating to
        the payment of fees for banking  supervision  in respect of periods
        subsequent to 31st March 1999.



<PAGE>


                                   SCHEDULE 4

                          FORM OF TRANSFER CERTIFICATE

                              TRANSFER CERTIFICATE


To:          National Westminster Bank Plc
             and the other parties
             to the Facilities Agreement (as defined below)

This transfer certificate  ("Transfer  Certificate") relates to a Revolving Loan
Agreement  dated [ ] August 1998 and made by (1) Huntingdon  Life Sciences Group
plc (2) Huntingdon Life Sciences Limited,  (3) Huntingdon Life Sciences Inc, (4)
the  Banks  and (5)  National  Westminster  Bank Plc as Agent  (the  "Facilities
Agreement" which term shall include any amendments or supplements thereto).

Terms defined in the Facilities Agreement shall, unless otherwise defined,  have
the same meanings when used in this Transfer Certificate.

I.           *[Details of Existing Bank] (the "Existing Bank"):

             1.          confirms that to the extent that details  appear in the
                         Schedule  to  this  Transfer   Certificate   under  the
                         headings     "Existing    Bank's     Commitment"    and
                         "Participation   in  the  Facilities",   those  details
                         accurately    summarise   its    Commitment   and   its
                         Participation in the Facilities all or part of which is
                         to be transferred; and

             2.          requests   [Details  of  Bank  Transferee]  (the  "Bank
                         Transferee") to accept and procure,  in accordance with
                         Clause 19 of the Facilities Agreement, the substitution
                         for the Existing Bank of the Bank Transferee in respect
                         of the amount  specified in the Schedule  hereto of its
                         Commitment and its  Participation  in the Facilities by
                         signing this Transfer Certificate.

II.          The Bank  Transferee  hereby  requests each of the  Borrowers,  the
             Banks and the Agent to accept this executed Transfer Certificate as
             being  delivered  under  and for the  purposes  of Clause 19 of the
             Facilities  Agreement so as to take effect in  accordance  with the
             terms of that  Clause  on [date of  transfer]  being the date on or
             before  which an  executed  copy of this  Transfer  Certificate  is
             delivered to the Agent.

III.         The Bank Transferee:

             1.    confirms that it has received a copy of the Facilities
                   Agreement together with such other documents and information
                   as it has requested in connection with this transaction;

             2.    confirms  that it has not  relied  and will not rely on
                   the  Existing  Bank to check or  enquire  on its behalf
                   into the legality, validity,  effectiveness,  adequacy,
                   accuracy  or  completeness  of any  such  documents  or
                   information; and

             3.    agrees  that it has not relied and will not rely on any
                   of the Existing Bank, the Agent and the Banks to assess
                   or  keep  under  review  on its  behalf  the  financial
                   condition, creditworthiness, condition, affairs, status
                   or nature of any of the Borrowers or any other party to
                   the Security.



IV.          The Bank  Transferee  undertakes with the Existing Bank and each of
             the other parties to the Facilities Agreement that it will perform,
             in accordance with their terms, all those obligations which, by the
             terms  of the  Facilities  Agreement,  will be  assumed  by it upon
             delivery of the executed copy of this Transfer  Certificate  to the
             Agent.

V.           On execution  of this  Transfer  Certificate  by the Agent on their
             behalf, the Borrowers and the Banks accept the Bank Transferee as a
             party to the Facilities  Agreement in substitution for the Existing
             Bank with respect to all those rights and obligations which, by the
             terms of the  Facilities  Agreement,  will be  assumed  by the Bank
             Transferee  after  delivery of the executed  copy of this  transfer
             Certificate to the Agent.

VI.          None of the Existing Bank, the Banks and the Agent:

             1.   makes any representation or warranty or assumes any
                  responsibility with respect to the legality, validity,
                  effectiveness, adequacy or enforceability of any of the
                  Financing Documents;  or

             2.   assumes any responsibility for the financial  condition
                  of any of the  Borrowers  or any other  party to any of
                  the  Financing  Documents or any other  document or for
                  the  performance and observance by the Borrowers or any
                  other party to the  Facilities  Agreement  or any other
                  document  of its or their  obligations  and any and all
                  conditions and  warranties,  whether express or implied
                  by law or otherwise, are excluded.

VII.         The Bank  Transferee  confirms that its Lending  Office and address
             for notices for the purposes of the Facilities Agreement are as set
             out in the Schedule hereto.

VIII.        The Existing Bank hereby gives notice to the Bank  Transferee  (and
             the  Bank  Transferee  hereby  acknowledges  and  agrees  with  the
             Existing  Bank) that the Existing  Bank is under no  obligation  to
             re-purchase  (or  in any  other  manner  to  assume,  undertake  or
             discharge   any   obligation  or  liability  in  relation  to)  the
             transferred  Commitment  and  Participation  at any time after this
             Transfer Certificate shall have taken effect.

IX.          Following the date upon which this Transfer Certificate shall have
             taken effect, without limiting the provisions hereof, each of the
             Bank Transferee and the Existing Bank hereby acknowledges and
             confirms to the other that in relation to the relative Commitment
             and Participation (or part thereof) variations, amendments
             or alterations to any of the terms of any of the Financing
             Documents arising in connection with any renegotiation or
             rescheduling of the obligations hereunder shall apply to and be
             binding on the Bank Transferee alone.

X.           This Transfer Certificate shall be construed in accordance with,
             and governed by, English law.

*[Bank Transferee]

By:..........................
   (Duly Authorised)


*[Existing Bank]

By:..........................
   (Duly Authorised)


The Agent on behalf of itself and all other parties to the Facilities Agreement.

By:..........................
   (Duly Authorised)

Dated:


<PAGE>


                                  THE SCHEDULE


Existing Bank's Commitment              Amount of Commitment Transferred




Participation in the Facilities         Amount of Participation Transferred






[Bank Transferee]

Lending Office    Address for notices
*                 *
                  Attention:                *
                  Telex:            *
                  Answerback:       *



<PAGE>
<TABLE>

                                   SCHEDULE 5

                                EXISTING SECURITY
<CAPTION>

                                 Document                                     Executed by       Date
<S>                                                                            <C>             <C>
    
1.  Guarantee and Debenture in favour of the Agent as amended by a              Parent          1.11.95
    Supplemental Deed dated 20th January 1998 and a Supplemental Deed
    dated 26th February 1998

2.  Guarantee  and  Debenture  in favour of the  Agent as  amended  by a        HLSL
    21.11.95  Supplemental  Deed dated 20th January  1998 and a Supplemental
    Deed dated 26th February 1998

3.  Guarantee in favour of the Agent as amended by a Supplemental Deed          HLS             21.11.95
    dated 20th January 1998 and a Supplemental Deed dated 26th
    February 1998

4.  Security Agreement in favour of the Agent as amended by a                   HLS             21.11.95
    Supplemental Deed dated 20th January 1998 and a Supplemental Deed
    dated 26th February 1998

5.  Mortgage  in favour  of the Agent  over the New  Jersey  Property  as       HLS
    16.01.98 amended by a Supplemental Deed dated 26th February 1998

6.  Equipment Mortgage in favour of the Agent                                   HLSL            20.04.98

7.  Security Agreement incorporating an Equipment Mortgage and a                HLS             30.04.98
    Charge over an Operating Account in favour of the Agent

</TABLE>

<PAGE>


                                           SCHEDULE 6

                                      CONDITIONS PRECEDENT


The Revolving Credit Facility shall be made available to the Borrowers when:

(i)   the Agent has received the following in form and substance satisfactory
      to it:

      (a)     copies,   each  certified  to  be  true,  complete  and
              up-to-date  copies,  of  resolutions  of  each  of  the
              relevant Borrower's boards of directors authorising the
              acceptance  and execution of this  Agreement and in the
              case of the Parent  unanimously  supporting,  approving
              and  recommending  the Placings to the  shareholders of
              the Parent;

      (b)     certified copies of the Investor Placing Agreement and the
              Shareholder Placing Agreement duly executed by the parties
              thereto; and

      (c)     a certified copy of the Circular.

(ii)  the Transaction Proceeds are received by the Agent in the Deposit Account;

(iii) the Agent has received (on behalf of the Banks) the Participation Fee
      referred to in Clause 16.4.1;

(iv)  NatWest has received  repayment in full and on a permanent basis of
      all Indebtedness outstanding in respect of the Bridging Facility.



<PAGE>


                                   SCHEDULE 7

                          PARTICIPATION IN RISK SHARING


Bank                                              Participation Percentage

National Westminster Bank Plc                          49.693%

Comerica                                               21.648%

The First National Bank of Maryland                    28.454%




<PAGE>




The Borrowers

SIGNED by                  )
                           )
for and on behalf of       )        CHRISTOPHER CLIFFE
HUNTINGDON LIFE SCIENCES   )
GROUP HOLDINGS plc         )




SIGNED by                  )
                           )
for and on behalf of       )        CHRISTOPHER CLIFFE
HUNTINGDON LIFE SCIENCES   )
LIMITED                    )




SIGNED by                  )
                           )       CHRISTOPHER CLIFFE
for and on behalf of       )
HUNTINGDON LIFE SCIENCES INC.)




The Agent

SIGNED by                  )
                           )
for and on behalf of       )        S J HAMILTON
NATIONAL WESTMINSTER       )
BANK Plc                   )




The Banks

SIGNED by                  )
                           )
for and on behalf of       )        S J HAMILTON
NATIONAL WESTMINSTER       )
BANK Plc                   )




SIGNED by                  )
                           )
for and on behalf of       )        RONALD LAPOINTE
THE FIRST NATIONAL BANK OF )
MARYLAND                   )




SIGNED by                  )
                           )        HENRY HADJAS
for and on behalf of       )
COMERICA BANK              )







</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-1
<SEQUENCE>5
<TEXT>

                                                         CONFORMED COPY
To:          Huntingdon Life Sciences Group plc
             Huntingdon Life Sciences Limited and
             c/o Woolley Road
             Alconbury
             Huntingdon
             Cambridgeshire PE17 5HS


                                                         7 August 1998



Dear Sirs,

Bridging  Facility to be made  available by National  Westminster  Bank Plc (the
"Overdraft  Bank") in  favour of (1)  Huntingdon  Life  Sciences  Group plc (the
"Parent")  and (2)  Huntingdon  Life  Sciences  Limited  ("HLSL")  (together the
"Borrowers")

National  Westminster  Bank Plc in its  capacity  as  Overdraft  Bank under this
Letter is  pleased  to advise  you that  with the  authority  of the Banks it is
prepared to offer the Borrowers the bridging facility referred to in Paragraph 2
of this Letter (the "Bridging  Facility") on the terms and conditions  contained
herein.

1.           DEFINITIONS AND INTERPRETATION

1.1          Definitions

             In this Letter  capitalised  expressions  shall,  unless  otherwise
             defined,  have the same  meanings  given to them in the  Facilities
             Agreement  and the following  expressions  shall have the following
             meanings:

             "Business Day" means a day (other than a Saturday) on which banks
             are open in the City of London for the transaction of Business;

             "Circular" means the circular to be issued by the Parent relating
             to the Placings;

             "DKB" means Dresdner Kleinwort Benson;

             "Existing  Overdraft  Facilities"  means the overdraft  facility of
             (pound)5,000,000  made  available to the Borrowers by the Overdraft
             Bank  pursuant  to the  terms of the  Original  Overdraft  Facility
             Letter and the Second Overdraft Facility Letter;

             "Expiry Date" means 2 September 1998 or such other date as the
             parties hereto may agree;

             "Facilities  Agreement"  means the facilities  agreement  dated 1st
             November  1995  between  the  Borrowers,  the  Banks  and  National
             Westminster  Bank Plc as agent as  amended  by a letter  dated 21st
             November  1995,  by  the  Original  Overdraft  Letter  and  by  the
             Amendment Agreement;

             "Intercreditor  Agreement" means the fourth intercreditor agreement
             to be entered into by each of the  Borrowers,  the Overdraft  Bank,
             the Agent and the Banks to record  the  priority  of the  Overdraft
             Bank with respect to the amounts  loaned to the  Borrowers by means
             of the Bridging Facility;.

             "Investor Placing" means the raising by the Parent of new equity by
             means  of a  subscription  by  certain  investors  for  120,000,000
             ordinary  shares  of 5 pence  each in the  Parent in order to raise
             (pound)15,000,000 (gross);

             "Investor  Placing  Agreement"  means  the  agreement  of even date
             herewith  between  the Parent  and the  investors  documenting  the
             Investor Placing;

             "New Facilities Agreement" means the New Facilities Agreement of
             even date herewith between National Westminster Bank Plc as Agent,
             the Banks and the Borrowers;

             "Original Overdraft Letter" means the letter dated 26th February
             1998 from the Overdraft Bank to the Borrowers;

             "Placings" mean the Investor Placing and the Shareholder Placing;

             "Resolutions" mean the resolutions of the shareholders of the
             Parent set out in the notice of EGM which is to be sent out with
             the Circular;

             "Second Overdraft  Facility letter" means the facility letter dated
             17th March 1998 from the Overdraft Bank to the Borrowers;

             "Shareholder Placing" means the raising by the Parent of new equity
             by means of a placing and open offer of 57,003,431  ordinary shares
             of 5 pence  each in the  Parent  in order to  raise  not less  than
             (pound)7,000,000 (gross);

             "Shareholder  Placing  Agreement"  means the agreement of even date
             herewith  between the Parent and DKB  relating  to the  Shareholder
             Placing;

             "Transaction  Proceeds"  means the monies (net of costs)  raised by
             the Parent pursuant to the Placings.


1.2          Interpretation

             In this Letter, unless the context otherwise requires:

             (a)         references to any persons shall be construed so as to
                         include that person's assigns, transferees or
                         successors in title;

             (b)         references to any document (or any specified provisions
                         of any  document)  shall be construed as  references to
                         such  document or that  provision as amended or novated
                         or supplemented  or replaced,  as the case may be, from
                         time to time;

             (c)         references to the singular shall include the plural and
                         vice  versa and  references  by way of male,  female or
                         neuter pronoun shall include references to all genders;
                         and

             (d)         references  to  paragraphs   are  to  be  construed  as
                         references to the  paragraphs of this Letter as amended
                         or varied from time to time.

2.           BRIDGING FACILITY

2.1          Subject to Paragraph 4 the Overdraft  Bank agrees to make available
             to the  Borrowers  from  the  date  of  this  letter  an  aggregate
             principal amount of  (pound)1,000,000  by way of sterling overdraft
             on the Borrowers' current accounts with the Overdraft Bank.

2.2          No drawing  shall be made under the  Bridging  Facility  unless the
             existing Overdraft Facilities are drawn down in full at the time of
             such drawing.

2.3          The Bridging Facility is in addition to the Existing Overdraft
             Facilities.

3.           PURPOSE

             The Borrowers shall utilise the Bridging  Facility for the purposes
             of their general corporate purposes.

4.           CONDITIONS PRECEDENT TO THE BRIDGING FACILITY

             The Bridging Facility shall be made available to the Borrowers when
             the Overdraft Bank has received the following in form and substance
             satisfactory to it:

(a)          the enclosed copy of this Letter with the endorsed acceptance duly
             signed on
                         behalf of each of the Borrowers;

(b)                      copies,   each  certified  to  be  true,  complete  and
                         up-to-date  copies,  of  resolutions  of  each  of  the
                         relevant Borrower's boards of directors authorising the
                         acceptance  and  execution  of  this  Letter,  the  New
                         Facilities  Agreement and the  Intercreditor  Agreement
                         and unanimously supporting,  approving and recommending
                         the Placings to the shareholders of the Parent;

(c)                      the   Intercreditor   Agreement,   the  New  Facilities
                         Agreement,  the  Investor  Placing  Agreement  and  the
                         Shareholder  Placing  Agreement  duly  executed  by the
                         parties thereto;

(d)          a certified copy of the Circular;

             (e)         a copy of the most up to date financial model of the
                         Investors for the Group; and

             (f)         a certified  copy of a letter  addressed  to the Parent
                         and/  or  DKB  from  N M  Rothschilds  &  Sons  Limited
                         confirming  the terms on which  they hold funds for the
                         purpose of meeting the Investors  obligations under the
                         Investor Placing Agreement.

5.           REPAYMENT ON DEMAND

             The Overdraft  Bank may with the prior  written  consent of all the
             Banks  terminate  the Bridging  Facility at any time in  accordance
             with Clause 13.3 of the New  Facilities  Agreement  and make demand
             for repayment of all sums (including  accrued interest) owing under
             the Bridging Facility. In any event, the Bridging Facility shall be
             repaid from the Transaction Proceeds.


6.           GENERAL TERMS IN RELATION TO THE BRIDGING FACILITY

6.1          Interest

6.1.1        Amount

             Interest  shall accrue and be  calculated  in respect of the amount
             outstanding  under the Bridging Facility on the basis of the number
             of days  elapsed  and a 365-day  year,  at a rate equal to the base
             rate of the Overdraft Bank from time to time plus 3.0 per cent. per
             annum.

6.1.2        Default interest

             Interest  on any sum  payable in respect of the  Bridging  Facility
             which is not paid when due shall be  charged  at 4.0 per cent.  per
             annum above the Overdraft Bank's base rate from time to time.

6.1.3        Payment of interest

             Interest  calculated in accordance  with  Paragraph  6.1.1 shall be
             payable  in  arrears  and  shall  be paid by the  Borrowers  to the
             Overdraft  Bank  on the  expiry  or  termination  of  the  Bridging
             Facility.  Default interest calculated in accordance with Paragraph
             6.1.2 shall be payable (both before and after  judgment) in arrears
             and shall be  debited  to the  Parent's  current  account  with the
             Overdraft Bank and compounded on the usual monthly charging days of
             the Overdraft Bank.

6.1.4        Determination of interest

             The  statement  of the  Overdraft  Bank as to the rate or amount of
             interest  payable  pursuant  to any  provision  of this  Letter  in
             respect of the Bridging Facility shall be conclusive in the absence
             of manifest error.

6.2          Further Assurance

             The Borrowers each  undertake to perform,  execute and deliver such
             documents as the Overdraft Bank may reasonably require to implement
             the purposes of and perfect the Bridging Facility,  any security or
             any of the transactions contemplated by this Letter.

6.3.         Payments

6.3.1        No withholdings

             All payments by the Borrowers under the Bridging Facility are to be
             made in immediately  available  funds free and clear of and without
             any  withholding  or  deduction  for any and all  present or future
             taxes,  duties,  levies,  fees or other  charges  and  without  any
             set-off or counter-claim whatsoever.

6.3.2        Grossing-up

             If any deduction or  withholding  is required in respect of any sum
             payable under the Bridging  Facility,  the Borrowers shall increase
             the sum so that the net amount received by the Overdraft Bank after
             the deduction or  withholding  (and after the payment of any tax or
             additional tax which is due as a consequence of the increase) shall
             be equal to the  amount  which the  Overdraft  Bank would have been
             entitled to receive in the absence of any  requirement to make that
             deduction or withholding.

6.3.3        Authority to debit account

             The Borrowers  irrevocably  authorise  the Overdraft  Bank to debit
             from time to time to any  account the  Borrowers  may have with the
             Overdraft  Bank all or any  amounts  due to the  Overdraft  Bank in
             connection with the Bridging Facility.

6.4.         Set-off

             Each of the Borrowers authorise the Overdraft Bank:

             (a)         to apply any credit balance on any of its accounts with
                         any of the Banks (by set-off, combination or otherwise)
                         in  satisfaction  of any sum due and payable and unpaid
                         in relation to the Bridging Facility or otherwise under
                         this Letter; and

             (b)         to purchase  with the moneys  standing to the credit of
                         any  such  account  such  other  currencies  as  may be
                         necessary to effect such application.

6.5          Joint and Several Liability

             The obligations of each of the Borrowers to the Overdraft Bank, the
             Agent and the Banks under this Letter shall be joint and several.

7.           UNDERTAKINGS TO THE BANKS

7.1     The Borrowers undertake with the Overdraft Bank, and the Banks that:

             (a)      they will  continue  to  provide  the  Banks  with such
                      further  financial  information,  documents and records
                      about the financial condition, operations and prospects
                      of  the  Group  as the  Agent  may  reasonably  require
                      including   individual   profit  and  loss  statements,
                      balance  sheets and Cash Flow  Forecasts  in respect of
                      each Borrower as requested;

             (b)      they will use their best  endeavours  provide the Banks
                      with such  information  in respect of the Investors and
                      the Investor Placing as the Agent  reasonably  requires
                      and keep the Agent  informed  of the  timetable  of the
                      Investor Placing and any changes to that timetable;

             (c)      they will  provide the Banks with such  information  as
                      the  Agent  reasonably   requires  in  respect  of  the
                      Shareholder Placing.

8.           COSTS

             The Borrowers agree and undertake that they will be responsible for
             and will pay on demand on a full  indemnity  basis all  proper  and
             reasonable  costs,  charges and expenses incurred by the Banks, the
             Agent and/or the Overdraft Bank in connection  with this Letter and
             the matters  contemplated  hereunder  including without  limitation
             reasonable legal fees.

9.           SUCCESSORS

             The  agreement  evidenced by this Letter shall enure to the benefit
             of the Overdraft Bank, the Agent and the Banks and their successors
             and  permitted  assigns  from  time  to  time  including,   without
             limitation,  any entity with which the Overdraft Bank, the Agent or
             the Banks may merge or  amalgamate or by which they may be absorbed
             or to which they may transfer all or any part of their  undertaking
             or  assets,  and  any  change  in  the  constitution  of any of the
             Overdraft  Bank,  the  Agent  or  the  Banks  or any  such  merger,
             amalgamation,  absorption or transfer shall not prejudice or affect
             any of their rights  under this Letter in any respect.  Neither the
             Overdraft  Bank nor the  Borrowers  may assign or  transfer  any of
             their rights, benefits or obligations under this Letter.

10.          DEMAND OR NOTICE

             Any demand or notice on any of the  Borrowers  under this Letter in
             relation to the Bridging  Facility  shall be made in writing signed
             by an officer of the  Overdraft  Bank and served either by personal
             delivery on any officer of the Borrowers at any place or by post or
             by hand delivery addressed to its registered office or its place of
             business last known to the Overdraft  Bank or by facsimile or telex
             using the relevant number last known to the Overdraft Bank. Service
             by post on the  Borrowers  shall be deemed to be  effective  on the
             next  business  day after the date of posting  and  notwithstanding
             that it be returned  undelivered.  Service by facsimile or telex on
             the  Borrowers  shall be deemed to be effective  on  despatch.  Any
             notice to the Overdraft Bank,  under this Letter in relation to the
             Bridging  Facility shall be made to the Overdraft  Bank's branch at
             the address stated at the head of this Letter or such other address
             as may be notified by the Overdraft Bank from time to time.

11.          SEVERANCE

             If at any time any provision of this Letter is or becomes  invalid,
             illegal  or  unenforceable  in any  respect  under  any  law of any
             jurisdiction,  the  validity,  legality and  enforceability  of the
             remaining provisions of this Letter and the validity,  legality and
             enforceability   of  those   provisions  under  the  law  of  other
             jurisdictions shall not in any way be affected or impaired thereby.

12.          PROPER LAW

             This Letter shall be governed by and construed in  accordance  with
             the laws of England and the Borrowers  submit to the  non-exclusive
             jurisdiction of the English courts.

13.          PERIOD OF OFFER

             The  Borrowers  must  confirm  their  acceptance  of the  terms and
             conditions  contained in this Letter by signing the  acceptance  on
             the  enclosed  duplicate  of this  Letter and  returning  it to the
             Overdraft Bank together with the documents  signed by the Borrowers
             referred to in  Paragraph  4 within 2 Business  Days of the date of
             this Letter.  If this offer is not so accepted  within that period,
             it shall lapse.

Yours faithfully


S.J. HAMILTON

 ......................................
for and on behalf of
NATIONAL WESTMINSTER BANK PLC
(as Overdraft Bank)



CHRISTOPHER CLIFFE

 ................................................
Signed by Director
for and on behalf of
HUNTINGDON LIFE SCIENCES GROUP PLC
duly authorised by a board resolution dated 6 August 1998


We acknowledge  receipt of the  original of this Letter  dated 7 August 1998 of
which this is a true copy and accept the terms and conditions thereof.


CHRISTOPHER CLIFFE

 ................................................
Signed by Director
for and on behalf of
HUNTINGDON LIFE SCIENCES LIMITED
duly authorised by a board resolution dated 6 August 1998


We  acknowledge  receipt of the original of this Letter dated 7 August 1998 of
which this is a true copy and accept the terms and conditions thereof.




</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-1
<SEQUENCE>6
<TEXT>

                                                                CONFORMED COPY


                              DATED 7th AUGUST 1998



                          NATIONAL WESTMINSTER BANK Plc
                                   (as Agent)

                                     - and -

                          NATIONAL WESTMINSTER BANK Plc
                                   (as a Bank)

                                     - and -

                       THE FIRST NATIONAL BANK OF MARYLAND
                                   (as a Bank)

                                     - and -

                                  COMERICA BANK
                                   (as a Bank)

                                      - and

                       HUNTINGDON LIFE SCIENCES GROUP plc


                        HUNTINGDON LIFE SCIENCES LIMITED

                                     - and -

                         HUNTINGDON LIFE SCIENCES, INC.

                         ------------------------------

                         FOURTH INTERCREDITOR AGREEMENT
                        replacing the third Intercreditor
                                    Agreement
                       between the same parties dated 17th
                                   March 1998

         -------------------------------------------------------------









<PAGE>




                                        TABLE OF CONTENTS


Clause        Heading                                    Page Number

1.            INTERPRETATION.................................2
2.            PRIORITIES.....................................5
3.            RISK-SHARING BY FNBM...........................6
4.            RISK-SHARING BY FNBM AND COMERICA..............8
6.            CO-OPERATION..................................10
7.            NO OBLIGATIONS TO BORROWERS...................10
9.            COUNTERPARTS..................................11
10.           LAW AND JURISDICTION..........................11

SCHEDULE      1 Participation in Risk-Sharing...............12
SCHEDULE      2 Security....................................13




<PAGE>


THIS AGREEMENT is made the 7th day of August 1998

BETWEEN:

(1)    NATIONAL WESTMINSTER BANK Plc of 3rd Floor, Juno Court, 25 Prescot
       Street, London E1 8BB (as Agent) (the "Agent");

(2)    NATIONAL WESTMINSTER BANK Plc of Phase 2, King's Cross House, 200
       Pentonville Road, London N1 9HL (as a Bank) ("NatWest");

(3)    THE FIRST  NATIONAL  BANK OF MARYLAND of 26 South  Charles  Street,
       Baltimore, MD21201, United States of America (as a Bank) ("FNBM");

(4)    COMERICA BANK (as a Bank) ("Comercia");

(5)    HUNTINGDON LIFE SCIENCES GROUP plc a company incorporated in England and
       Wales with registered number 502370 of Woolley Road, Alconbury,
       Huntingdon, Cambridgeshire PE17 5HS ("the Parent");

(6)    HUNTINGDON LIFE SCIENCES LIMITED a company incorporated in England and
       Wales with registered number 1815730 of Woolley Road, Alconbury,
       Huntingdon, Cambridgeshire PE17 5HS ("HLSL"); and

(7)    HUNTINGDON  LIFE SCIENCES,  INC. a company  incorporated  under the
       laws of the State of Delaware, USA, having its registered office at
       9 East Loockerman Street,  City of Dover,  County of Kent, State of
       Delaware, United States of America ("HLS").

WHEREAS:

(A)  By a  facilities  agreement  dated 1st  November  1995  between the
     Borrowers (1), the Banks (as defined therein) (2) and the Agent (3)
     as subsequently amended (the "Facilities Agreement") the Banks made
     available to the Borrowers certain facilities.

(B)  By various  security  agreements  and guarantees and debentures the
     Borrowers  granted security over their respective  assets in favour
     of the Agent as continuing security for their obligations under the
     Facilities Agreement.

(C)  By a facility letter dated 17th March 1998 (the "New Facility Letter")
     addressed to the Borrowers, NatWest in its capacity as the Overdraft Bank
     thereunder agreed to provide the First New Overdraft Facility and the
     Second New Overdraft Facility to the Parent and HLSL on the terms and
     conditions set out therein and FNBM and NatWest in their capacity as
     Banks agreed to share the risk incurred by NatWest as Overdraft Bank in
     providing the First New Overdraft Facility and FNBM, NatWest and
     Comerica in their capacity as Banks agreed to share the risk incurred
     on the terms and conditions as set out herein.

(D)  By  supplemental  deeds dated 26th February 1998 the Borrowers have
     extended  the  security  created by the  documents  referred  to in
     Recital B to cover all of the  obligations  and  liabilities of the
     Borrowers to the Banks howsoever incurred.

(E)  By a  facility  letter  of  today's  date (the  "Bridging  Facility
     Letter") addressed to the Borrowers, NatWest in its capacity as the
     Overdraft  Bank has agreed to provide the Bridging  Facility to the
     Parent and HLSL on the terms and  conditions  set out  therein  and
     FNBM,  Coamerica and NatWest in their capacity as Banks have agreed
     to grant super  priority to the Overdraft  Bank with respect to the
     amount outstanding at any time under the Bridging Facility.

NOW THIS AGREEMENT WITNESSES as follows:

1.     INTERPRETATION

1.1    In this  Agreement  (including  the  Recitals),  unless the context
       otherwise  requires or unless otherwise  defined or provided for in
       this Agreement,  words and expressions shall have the same meanings
       as are  attributable  to them under the  Facilities  Agreement.  In
       addition  the  following  words  and  expressions  shall  have  the
       respective meanings ascribed to them:

       "Bridging Facility" means the (pound)1,000,000 bridging facility to
       be provided by the  Overdraft  Bank by means of an overdraft on the
       current accounts of the Parent and HLSL at the Overdraft Bank;

       "First New Overdraft Facility" bears the same meaning as in the New
       Overdraft Document;

       "First New Overdraft  Outstandings" means at any time the aggregate
       amount  outstanding  by  way  of  overdraft  under  the  First  New
       Overdraft Facility;

       "First Participation Percentage" means, at any time, in relation to
       NatWest and FNBM the percentage of their  participation in the risk
       incurred by NatWest under the First New  Overdraft  Facility as set
       out in Column 2 of Schedule 1;

       "First  Super  Priority   Obligations"   means  all  moneys  owing,
       obligations  and other  liabilities  of the  Parent and HLSL to the
       Overdraft Bank under the Bridging Facility;

       "Junior Obligations" means the NatWest Obligations;

       "NatWest  Facility  Document"  means a facility  letter  dated 10th
       September  1997 (as amended by a letter dated 26th  February  1998)
       from NatWest to HLSL and the Parent in respect of overdraft,  forex
       daytime  exposure  and  terminable   indemnity   facilities  in  an
       aggregate amount of (pound)995,000;

       "NatWest  Obligations"  means  the  (pound)100,000  (plus  interest
       thereon)  owing by the Parent  and/or HLSL to NatWest in respect of
       the Residual Overdraft together with all moneys owing to NatWest in
       respect of the  terminable  indemnity  forex and daylight  exposure
       Facilities made available under the NatWest Facility Document;

       "Net  Proceeds"  means in relation to the Security the net proceeds
       of sale or other  realisation of the assets subject to the Security
       after  discharge  of all  direct  costs  incurred  in such  sale or
       realisation,  the discharge of any prior ranking  claims and, where
       appropriate,  all costs, charges, fees and expenses of any receiver
       appointed pursuant to the Security;

       "New Overdraft Document" means the facility letter dated 17th March
       1998 from NatWest as Overdraft Bank to the Borrowers;

       "Outstandings"  means in  relation  to each Bank,  at the time of a
       distribution of the Net Proceeds,  the amount owing to that Bank by
       all the Borrowers under the Facilities Agreement, and in respect of
       NatWest and FNBM also under the First New  Overdraft  Facility (and
       in calculating the  Outstandings in respect of FNBM, the Agent will
       take  into  account  FNBM's  liability  to  NatWest  under the risk
       sharing provisions contained in Clause 3 of this Agreement);

       "Priority  Obligations"  means all moneys  owing,  obligations  and
       other  liabilities  of the  Borrowers  to the  Banks  and the Agent
       pursuant  to the  Facilities  Agreement  and  under  the  First New
       Overdraft Facility;

       "Residual Overdraft" means the residual overdraft facility provided
       under the NatWest Facility Document;

       "Second New Overdraft Facility" bears the same meaning as in the New
       Overdraft Document;

       "Second New Overdraft Outstandings" means at any time the aggregate
       amount  outstanding  by way  of  overdraft  under  the  Second  New
       Overdraft Facility;

       "Second Participation Percentage" means at any time, in relation to
       NatWest, FNBM and Comerica the percentage of their participation in
       the risk  incurred  by  NatWest  under  the  Second  New  Overdraft
       Facility as set out in Column 3 of Schedule 1;

       "Security"  means all the  security  executed by the  Borrowers  in
       favour of the Agent as security  trustee  for the  Secured  Parties
       details  of  which  are  listed  in  Schedule  2 to this  Agreement
       together  with any further  security so created by the Borrowers or
       any of them;

       "Sharing  Percentages"  means in relation to each Bank a percentage
       calculated using the following formula:

       A = B x 100
             C

       A = Sharing  Percentage of the Bank in question B = Outstandings of
       the Bank in question C = Total Outstandings; and

       "Super Priority  Obligations"  means all moneys owing,  obligations
       and other  liabilities  of the Borrowers to the Overdraft  Bank and
       the Banks under the Second New Overdraft Facility; and

       "Total  Outstandings"  means,  at the time of a distribution of the
       Net Proceeds,  the  aggregate  amount owing to all the Banks by the
       Borrowers  under  the  Facilities   Agreement  and  the  First  New
       Overdraft Facility.


1.2    Interpretation

       In this Agreement, unless the context otherwise requires:

       (a)  references to any persons shall be construed so as to
            include that person's assigns, transferees or successors in title;

       (b)  references to any document (or any specified provisions
            of any  document)  shall be construed as  references to
            such  document or that  provision as amended or novated
            or supplemented  or replaced,  as the case may be, from
            time to time;

       (c)  references to the singular shall include the plural and
            vice  versa and  references  by way of male,  female or
            neuter pronoun shall include references to all genders;
            and

       (d)  references to Clauses and Schedules are to be construed
            as references to the Clauses of, and Schedules to, this
            Agreement as amended or varied from time to time.


2.     PRIORITIES

2.1    It is hereby  agreed by and between  the parties to this  Agreement
       that on  enforcement  of the  Security  the Net  Proceeds  shall be
       applied:

       (i)    first, in discharge of the First Super Priority Obligations;

       (ii)   second, in discharge of the Super Priority Obligations;

       (iii)  third, in discharge of the Priority Obligations; and

       (iv) fourth, in discharge of the Junior Obligations.

2.2    The Security is a continuing  security and the ranking of the First
       Super  Priority  Obligations,   Super  Priority  Obligations,   the
       Priority  Obligations and the Junior Obligations as provided for in
       this  Agreement  shall not be  affected by any  fluctuation  in the
       amounts from time to time of the First Super Priority  Obligations,
       Super Priority Obligations,  the Priority Obligations or the Junior
       Obligations  or by the existence at any time of a credit balance on
       any current or other accounts.

2.3    The  moneys  owing and  obligations  and other  liabilities  of the
       Overdraft  Borrowers  to the Banks in  respect  of the  Second  New
       Overdraft Facility shall rank pari passu in all respects so that on
       enforcement  the Net Proceeds shall be shared between the Banks pro
       rata  on  the  basis  of  their  respective  Second   Participation
       Percentages.

2.4    For the  avoidance of doubt it is  confirmed  that the moneys owing
       and obligations and other liabilities of the Borrowers to the Banks
       and the Agent under the  Facilities  Agreement and of the Overdraft
       Borrowers to NatWest and FNBM in respect of the First New Overdraft
       Facility  shall  rank  pari  passu  in all  respects  and  that  on
       enforcement,  after payment of the First Super Priority Obligations
       and the  Super  Priority  Obligations,  the Net  Proceeds  shall be
       shared between the Banks pro rata on the basis of their  respective
       Sharing Percentages.

2.5    In the  event  of the  Group  making  any  early  repayment  of the
       Facilities or of amounts due under the New Facility  Letter whether
       by voluntary repayment from cashflow or from the sale of any assets
       such  reduction  will be applied in accordance  with the priorities
       set out in Clause 2.1 as if they were Net Proceeds.


3.     RISK-SHARING BY FNBM

3.1.1  FNBM hereby  irrevocably  and unconditionally  agrees and undertakes to
       NatWest to indemnify  NatWest and to keep NatWest fully and  effectively 
       indemnified on demand and free of any  set-off,  counterclaim  or other 
       deductions  against  all  losses, liabilities,  costs,  charges  and 
       expenses  which  NatWest  at any time  incurs or suffers  arising  out
       of or in  connection  with  the  provision  of the  First  New
       Overdraft  Facility  (including  for the  avoidance of doubt the First
       New Overdraft Outstandings)  (other than in respect of gross  negligence 
       or wilful  misconduct on the part of NatWest)  (the  "Liabilities")
       PROVIDED THAT FNBM shall only be obliged to  indemnify  NatWest  under
       this Clause to the extent of an amount  equivalent  to
       its First Participation Percentage of the Liabilities.

3.1.2  A  certificate  of an  officer  of  NatWest as to the amount of the
       Liabilities  shall,  save in the case of manifest error, be binding
       on FNBM.

3.1.3  NatWest  shall not be obliged  to take any  action to  recover  the
       Liabilities   from  the   Borrowers   before   making   demand  for
       indemnification against FNBM under this Clause 3.1.

3.2    COUNTER-INDEMNITY BY THE BORROWERS

3.2.1  Each of the Borrowers hereby  unconditionally and irrevocably,  and
       jointly and  severally,  agree and undertake to each of NatWest and
       FNBM as follows:

   (a)  to indemnify  NatWest  and FNBM and to keep  NatWest and FNBM fully
        and effectively  indemnified  against  all  actions,  proceedings,
        claims, damages,  demands,  losses,  liabilities,  costs,  charges
        and  expenses (including,  for the  avoidance of doubt,  any such
        arising under any of the  indemnities  given by FNBM to NatWest
        under  Clause 3.1) which are  at any time brought or preferred
        against  NatWest  and/or FNBM or which either  or  both  of  them
        at  any  time  incurs  arising  out of or in
        connection with the provision of the First New Overdraft Facility;

   (b)  to pay NatWest and FNBM on demand free of all set-off,  counterclaim or
        other deductions of any nature whatsoever all payments,  losses,  costs
        and  expenses suffered  or incurred or arising in relation to the First
        New Overdraft Facility  together with  interest  thereon  calculated in
        accordance  with the  provisions  of  and  at  the  rate  specified  in
        Paragraph 6.1.1 of the New Facility  Letter which interest shall accrue
        and be payable as from the date on which such  payments, losses,  costs
        and  expenses are paid or incurred by NatWest  and/or FNBM  without the
        necessity for any demand being first made for payment thereof;  and

   (c)  that  until  all  obligations,   indebtedness  or  liabilities (whether
        actual or  contingent)  of the Borrowers  to both NatWest and FNBM have
        been  fully  and  effectively discharged  the  Borrowers  shall  not be
        entitled  to share in any  security held or money  received  by NatWest
        and/or  FNBM on account of the same or to stand in the place of NatWest
        and/or  FNBM in respect of any such security  or money or take any step
        to enforce any right or claim against the  Borrowers  in respect of any
        monies paid by the Borrowers  to NatWest  and/or  FNBM or exercise  any
        right of surety in competition  with  NatWest  and/or FNBM and that the
        obligations  of the Borrowers  under  this  Clause  3.2.1  shall not be
        discharged  nor  shall the  liability  of the  Borrowers  hereunder  be
        affected  or  reduced  by reason  of any  failure  of or  irregularity,
        defect or informality in any security nor by any legal  limitation, bar
        or restriction,  disability, incapacity or want of any borrowing powers
        of  the  Borrowers  or  want of  authority  of any  director,  manager,
        official or other  person appearing  to be acting for the  Borrowers in
        any matter in respect of the monies or  liabilities  hereby  secured or
        by  any   supervening   matters  rendering  the   performance   of  the
        obligations  of the  Borrowers illegal  in any  jurisdiction  and  such
        monies or liabilities  will be recoverable by the NatWest and FNBM from
        the Borrowers as sole or as principal debtors.

3.2.2   For the  avoidance of doubt the  Borrowers  shall not be obliged to
        pay under the  indemnity  contained  in Clause  3.2.1 any more than
        they  would  have had to pay had they made  payment  in full of all
        sums owing in respect of the First New  Overdraft  Facility and any
        costs and expenses attributable to the collection of the same.


4.       RISK-SHARING BY FNBM AND COMERICA

4.1.1    Each of FNBM and Comerica  severally hereby irrevocably and 
         unconditionally  agrees and  undertakes  to NatWest  to  indemnify 
         NatWest  and to keep  NatWest  fully and effectively  indemnified 
         on demand and free of any set-off,  counterclaim  or other
         deductions  against all losses,  liabilities,  costs,  charges  and 
         expenses  which NatWest  at any time  incurs or suffers  arising 
         out of or in  connection  with the  provision  of the Second New 
         Overdraft  Facility  (including  for the  avoidance of doubt the 
         Second  New  Overdraft Outstandings) (other  than in respect of gross
         negligence  or  wilful  misconduct  on the  part  of  NatWest)
         (the "Liabilities") PROVIDED  THAT FNBM and Comerica  shall only be
         obliged to indemnify  NatWest  under this  Clause to the  extent 
         of an  amount  equivalent  to their  respective  Second
         Participation Percentage of the Liabilities.

4.1.2    A  certificate  of an  officer  of  NatWest as to the amount of the
         Liabilities  shall,  save in the case of manifest error, be binding
         on FNBM and Comerica.

4.1.3    NatWest  shall not be obliged  to take any  action to  recover  the
         Liabilities   from  the   Borrowers   before   making   demand  for
         indemnification against FNBM and Comerica under this Clause 4.1.

4.2      COUNTER-INDEMNITY BY THE BORROWERS

4.2.1    Subject   to   Clause   4.2.2   each   of  the   Borrowers   hereby
         unconditionally and irrevocably,  and jointly and severally,  agree
         and undertake to each of NatWest, Comerica and FNBM as follows:

 (a)   to indemnify  NatWest,  Comerica and FNBM and to keep NatWest,  Comerica
        and  FNBM  fully  and  effectively   indemnified  against  all  actions,
        proceedings,  claims,  damages,  demands,  losses,  liabilities,  costs,
        charges and expenses  (including,  for the avoidance of doubt,  any such
        arising  under  any  of the  indemnities  given  by  FNBM,  Comerica  to
        NatWest  under  Clause 4.1) which are at any time  brought or  preferred
        against  NatWest  and/or  Comerica  and/or  FNBM or which  any or all of
        them  at any  time  incurs  arising  out of or in  connection  with  the
        provision of the Second New Overdraft Facility;

 (b)   to pay  NatWest,  Comerica  and  FNBM on  demand  free  of all  set-off,
        counterclaim   or  other   deductions  of  any  nature   whatsoever  all
        payments,  losses,  costs and  expenses  suffered or incurred or arising
        in  relation  to  the  Second  New  Overdraft   Facility  together  with
        interest  thereon  calculated in accordance  with the  provisions of and
        at the rate  specified  in Paragraph  6.1.1 of the New  Facility  Letter
        which  interest  shall  accrue  and be payable as from the date on which
        such  payments,  losses,  costs and  expenses  are paid or  incurred  by
        NatWest  and/or  Comerica  and/or  FNBM  without the  necessity  for any
        demand being first made for payment thereof;  and

(c)    that until all obligations, indebtedness or liabilities (whether actual
       or contingent) of the Borrowers to each of NatWest, Comerica and FNBM
       have been fully and effectively discharged the Borrowers shall not be
       entitled to share in any security held or money received by NatWest
       and/or Comerica and/or FNBM on account of the same or to stand in the
       place of NatWest and/or Comerica and/or FNBM in respect of any such
       security or money or take any step to enforce any right or claim against
       the Borrowers in respect of any monies paid by the Borrowers to  NatWest
       and/or Comerica and/or FNBM or exercise any right of surety in
       competition with NatWest and/or Comerica and/or FNBM and that the
       obligations of the Borrowers under this Clause 4.2.1 shall not be
       discharged nor shall the liability of the Borrowers hereunder be
       affected or reduced by reason of any failure of or irregularity,
       defect or informality in any security nor by any legal limitation,
       bar or restriction, disability, incapacity or want of any borrowing
       powers of the Borrowers or want of authority of any director, manager,
       official or other person appearing to be acting for the Borrowers in
       any matter in respect of the monies or liabilities hereby secured or
       by any supervening matters rendering the performance of the obligations
       of the Borrowers illegal in any jurisdiction and such monies or
       liabilities will be recoverable by the NatWest and Comerica and FNBM
       from the Borrowers as sole or as principal debtors.

4.2.2  For the  avoidance of doubt the  Borrowers  shall not be obliged to
       pay under the  indemnity  contained  in Clause  4.2.1 any more than
       they  would  have had to pay had they made  payment  in full of all
       sums owing in respect of the Second New Overdraft  Facility and any
       costs and expenses attributable to the collection of the same.


5.     MAKING DEMAND

       Each of the Banks hereby agrees with the other Bank that NatWest in
       its capacity as Agent and as Overdraft Bank shall not and shall not
       be obliged to make any demand for  repayment of the  Facilities  or
       the Overdraft  Facilities or the Bridging  Facility  without having
       obtained the prior written authority of all of the Banks.


6.     CO-OPERATION

       The Agent and the Banks shall  co-operate to ensure that any moneys
       in  the  hands  of a  receiver  appointed  pursuant  to  any of the
       Security are distributed in a manner consistent with the provisions
       of this Agreement.


7.     NO OBLIGATIONS TO BORROWERS

7.1    The Borrowers join in this Agreement to acknowledge the arrangements
       made between the Banks and the Agent in this Agreement and to give the
       indemnities set out in Clauses 3.2 and 4.2 but shall have no rights
       under this Agreement.

7.2    Nothing in this Agreement shall as between the Borrowers on the one hand
       and the Banks on the other hand affect or prejudice any rights or
       remedies under the Security.


8.     REPLACEMENT

       This Agreement supersedes and replaces the Intercreditor Agreements
       dated  17th  March  1998 and 26th  February  1998  except  that the
       provisions of Clause 3 of the latter agreement remain in force.


9.     COUNTERPARTS

       This  Agreement may be executed in any number of  counterparts  and
       all  of  such  counterparts  taken  together  shall  be  deemed  to
       constitute one and the same instrument.


10.    LAW AND JURISDICTION

       This Agreement  shall be governed by, and construed in all respects
       in accordance with English law.


IN WITNESS  whereof the parties hereto causes this Agreement to be duly executed
on the date set out above.


<PAGE>


                                   SCHEDULE 1

                          Participation in Risk-Sharing




Bank       First Participation Percentage     Second Participation Percentage

NatWest           71.429%                               47.619%

FNBM              28.571%                               28.571%
  
Comerica          --                                    23.810%






<PAGE>
<TABLE>

                                   SCHEDULE 2

                                    Security
<CAPTION>


                                 Document                                    Executed by           Date
<S>                                                                            <C>                <C>

1.  Guarantee and Debenture in favour of the Agent as amended by a              Parent             1.11.95
    Supplemental Deed dated 20th January 1998 and a Supplemental Deed
    dated 26th February 1998

2.  Guarantee  and  Debenture  in favour of the  Agent as  amended  by a        HLSL
    21.11.95  Supplemental  Deed dated 20th January  1998 and a  Supplemental
    Deed dated 26th February 1998

3.  Guarantee in favour of the Agent as amended by a Supplemental Deed          HLS                21.11.95
    dated 20th January 1998 and a Supplemental Deed dated 26th
    February 1998

4.  Security Agreement in favour of the Agent as amended by a                   HLS                21.11.95
    Supplemental Deed dated 20th January 1998 and a Supplemental Deed
    dated 26th February 1998

5.  Mortgage  in favour  of the Agent  over the New  Jersey  Property  as       HLS
    16.01.98 amended by a Supplemental Deed dated 26th February 1998

6.  Equipment Mortgage in favour of the Agent                                   HLSL               20.04.98

7.  Security Agreement incorporating an Equipment Mortgage and a                HLS                30.04.98
    Charge over an Operating Account in favour of the Agent

</TABLE>


<PAGE>



SIGNED by                                             )  S J HAMILTON
S J HAMILTON                                          )
for and on behalf of NATIONAL WESTMINSTER BANK Plc    )
(as Agent)                                            )





SIGNED by                                             )  S J HAMILTON
S J HAMILTON                                          )
for and on behalf of NATIONAL WESTMINSTER BANK Plc    )
(as a Bank)                                           )





SIGNED by                                             )  RONALD LAPOINTE
RONALD LAPOINTE                                       )
for and on behalf of THE FIRST NATIONAL BANK OF       )
MARYLAND (as a Bank)                                  )





SIGNED by                                             )  HENRY HADJAS
HENRY HADJAS                                          )
for and on behalf of COMERICA BANK (as a Bank)        )
                                                      )





SIGNED by                                             )  CHRISTOPHER CLIFFE
CHRISTOPHER CLIFFE                                    )
for and on behalf of HUNTINGDON LIFE SCIENCES GROUP   )
plc                                                   )





SIGNED by                                             )  CHRISTOPHER CLIFFE
CHRISTOPHER CLIFFE                                    )
for and on behalf of HUNTINGDON LIFE SCIENCES         )
LIMITED                                               )





SIGNED by                                             )  CHRISTOPHER CLIFFE
CHRISTOPHER CLIFFE                                    )
for and on behalf of HUNTINGDON LIFE SCIENCES, INC.   )
                                                      )





</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-1
<SEQUENCE>7
<TEXT>


THIS THIRD SUPPLEMENTAL DEED is made this 7th day of August 1998

BETWEEN:-

1.       HUNTINGDON LIFE SCIENCES GROUP PLC, a Company incorporated under the
         laws of England and Wales with registered number 502370 of Woolley
         Road, Alconbury, Huntingdon, Cambridgeshire PE18 6ES ("the Chargor");
         and

2.       NATIONAL WESTMINSTER BANK PLC of 3rd Floor, Juno Court, 24 Prescott
         Street, London E1 8BB as agent and trustee for the Secured Parties
         (the "Agent" which expression shall include all successor agents
         appointed from time to time).

WHEREAS

(A)      By a Facilities Agreement of even date herewith made between the
         Chargor (1), Huntingdon Life Sciences Limited (2), Huntingdon Life
         Sciences Inc. (3), the Secured Parties (therein called the "Banks")
         (4) and the Agent (5) ("the Facilities Agreement"), the Banks agreed
         to make available to the Borrowers (as therein defined) certain
         facilities in substitution for the Existing Facilities (as therein
         defined);

(B)      The Existing Facilities, the Existing Ancillary Facilities and the
         Bridging Facility (as defined in the Facilities Agreement) are the
         only facilities which immediately prior to the signing of this Deed
         were available to the Borrowers from the Banks or any or them (alone
         or jointly with any other person);

(C)      This Deed is supplemental to a Guarantee and Debenture dated 1st
         November 1995 between the parties hereto (as amended and supplemented
         by Supplemental Deeds dated 20th January 1998 and 26th February 1998,
         together hereinafter referred to as "the Debenture")

NOW THIS DEED WITNESSETH as follows:-

1        (a)      In this Deed (including the recitals), unless the context
                  otherwise requires or unless otherwise defined or provided
                  for in this Deed, words and expressions shall have the same
                  meanings as are attributable to them under the Debenture and
                  the Facilities Agreement; and

         (b)      Clause 2.1 of the Debenture shall be amended by the
                  insertion of the words "when and to the extent that they fall
                  due for payment" after the words "that it will".

         2.       The right of the Agent to give notice and to take possession
                  and appoint a Receiver pursuant to Clause 7.1 of the Debenture
                  shall be exercisable only in accordance with Clause 13.4 of
                  the Facilities Agreement.

         3.       The provisions of Clause 7.2 of the Debenture shall, subject
                  to Clause 8 below, have effect only if, following a breach of
                  Clause 12.3(a) of the Facilities Agreement which constitutes
                  a Default under Clause 13.1(b) thereof or following a Default
                  described in Clause 13.1(f) thereof, the Agent gives notice
                  pursuant to Clause 13.2 of the Facilities Agreement and a
                  Receiver or Receivers are appointed over the whole of the
                  property, assets and undertaking of any of the Borrowers.

         4.       The Agent may only serve notice and exercise its rights under
                  Clause 10.1 of the Debenture if it has given notice in
                  accordance with Clause 13.2 of the Facilities Agreement.

         5.       The Agent may only serve notice and exercise its rights under
                  Clause 11.1 of the Debenture after notice has been given in
                  accordance with Clause 13.2 of the Facilities Agreement OR,
                  in the case of an application to the Court for an
                  administration order, only in the circumstances described in
                  Clause 13.1(j) of the Facilities Agreement.

         6.       Without prejudice to any set-off pursuant to insolvency
                  legislation and notwithstanding any other provisions of the
                  Debenture or this Deed, neither the Agent nor the  Secured
                  Parties (or any of them) shall have(i) any right  whether
                  under  Clause 14 of the  Debenture or otherwise
                  howsoever  to combine,  consolidate,  set off or  transfer
                  (save for a transfer  pursuant to Clause 14.2.3 of the
                  Facilities  Agreement)  any sums from time to time standing
                  to the credit of the Deposit Account or (ii) any rights or
                  remedies over such sums save for the exercise of the
                  Agent's rights under the Debenture in accordance with the
                  provisions of Clause 8 below.

         7.       The provisions of Clause 23 of the Debenture shall be subject
                  to any provisions inconsistent therewith in the Facilities
                  Agreement, which latter provisions shall prevail.

         8.       Notwithstanding any of the provisions of this Deed or the
                  Debenture:-

                  (a)  none of the rights, powers and remedies granted to the
                       Agent pursuant to the Debenture shall be exercisable in
                       relation to the sums from time to time standing to the
                       credit of the Deposit Account; and

                  (b)  the Chargor shall be entitled at all times to withdraw
                       monies from the Deposit Account for the general working
                       capital requirements of the Group, subject only to
                       Clause 14.2.2 of the Facilities Agreement;

                  unless (i) the Agent has made a demand for payment pursuant
                  to Clause 13.2 of the Facilities Agreement and has appointed
                  a Receiver or Receivers over the whole of the property,
                  assets and undertaking of any of the Borrowers pursuant to
                  Clause 11.1 of the Debenture as amended hereby OR (ii) an
                  administration order has been made in relation to any of the
                  Borrowers pursuant to section 8 of the Insolvency Act 1986
                  (or any statutory modification or re-enactment thereof from
                  time to time in force).

         9.       In the event of any inconsistency  between the provisions
                  hereof and the provisions of the Facilities Agreement the
                  latter shall prevail.

         10.      Subject to the provisions hereof the Debenture shall continue
                  in full force and effect.

         11.      This Deed shall be governed by and construed and interpreted
                  in accordance with English law.

         12.      Every provision contained in this Deed shall be severable and
                  distinct from every other such provision and if at any time
                  any one or more of such provisions is or becomes invalid,
                  illegal or unenforceable, the validity, legality and
                  enforceability of the remaining such provisions shall not in
                  any way be affected thereby.

         13.      This Deed may be executed in any number of counterparts and
                  all such counterparts shall be deemed to constitute one and
                  the same instrument.

IN WITNESS whereof the Chargor and the Agent have signed this Deed as a deed
with the intention that it be delivered the day and year first before written.


Signed as a Deed by                                  )
HUNTINGDON LIFE SCIENCES GROUP PLC                   )
acting by two Directors or one Director              )
and its Secretary                                    )


Signed as a Deed for and on behalf of                )
NATIONAL WESTMINSTER BANK PLC



</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-2
<SEQUENCE>8
<TEXT>


Deed of Variation



between

Huntingdon Life Sciences Limited
as the Company


and


Huntingdon Life Sciences Group plc



and


Christopher Cliffe
as the Director


<PAGE>



THIS DEED is dated the 7th day of  August 1998 and made

BETWEEN:

(1)      Hungtindon Life Sciences Limited ("the Company"), registered in England
         and Wales and having its registered  office at Wooley Road,  Alconbury,
         Huntingdon, Cambs PE17 5HS;

(2)      Huntingdon  Life Sciences Group plc ("HSLG plc")  registered in England
         and Wales and having its registered  office at Wooley Road,  Alconbury,
         Huntingdon, Cambs PE17 5HS; and

(3) Christopher  Cliffe ("the Director") of Delamere,  Cutler's Green,  Thaxted,
Dunmow, Essex CM6 2PZ.

BACKGROUND 

The  Director is  currently  employed  by the Company and is entering  into this
Agreement to vary his existing service  agreement with the Company such that his
employment  with the Company  will  terminate  by mutual  consent on 31 December
1998.  For the  avoidance  of doubt,  in  respect  of matters to which this Deed
relates it will supersede his existing  terms and conditions of employment,  but
otherwise the existing terms and conditions will remain unchanged.

For the mutual  considerations  contained  in this  Agreement  and the  attached
compromise agreement taken together THE PARTIES AGREE THAT:

1.       This  agreement is expressly  conditional on the completion of the cash
         subscription  and open  offer for new  shares in HLSG plc in  September
         1998.

2.       Unless the context  otherwise  requires in this Agreement the following
         words and phrases have the following meanings given below:

(A)       "Associated  Company" means any holding company (as defined in
          section 736 of the  Companies Act 1985) of the Company and any
          company of which the Company, any such holding company, or any
          subsidiary  (as  defined in section 736 of the  Companies  Act
          1985) of the  Company or any such  holding  company,  holds or
          controls  more than 20% in nominal  value of the equity  share
          capital;

(B)       "Group"  means the  Company  and any  Associated  Company  and
          "Group Company' shall be construed accordingly; and

(C)       :Service  Contract"  means the contract of employment  entered
          into by the Director  and the Company  dated 15 March 1993 (as
          amended on 31 May 1994,  05 October 1994, 10 March 1995 and 05
          March 1997);

3.       It is  hereby  agreed  that the  employment  of the  Director  with the
         Company will  terminate on 31 December 1998 with  immediate  effect and
         without any notice or further  payment  (save as specified  below) from
         the Company or any Group Company. The Director will continue to receive
         his salary and other contractual benefits until that date.

4.       It is agreed that,  whilst the Director will remain in employment until
         31 December  1998,  the Company may, at its  discretion,  assign to the
         Director some or none of the duties under his Service  Contract and may
         require the Director not to attend at the  Company's  premises for some
         or none of the period.  Such  instructions  from the Company  shall not
         constitute a breach of the Service Contract.

5.       The Company agrees to give further  consideration  to ways in which the
         Director   will  be  given   financial   incentives   to  maximize  the
         profitability  of the Company and/or any Group Company and the value of
         its assets during the period until the termination of his employment.

6.       As soon as is reasonably  practicable and, in any event, within 14 days
         of the  termination  of employment of the Director on the date referred
         to in  paragraph 3 above,  both  parties  will enter into a  comprising
         agreement  in the  form  attached  hereto.  Under  the  terms  of  that
         agreement   The  Company   will  pay  to  the   Director   the  sum  of
         (pound)250,000  )less such tax and  national  insurance  as is properly
         deductible therefrom) which the parties acknowledge is in consideration
         for the variation in the rights of the Director  under the terms of the
         Service Contract and loss of employment.

7.       The  Director  hereby  confirms  that  he has,  as at the  date of this
         Agreement,  taken  independent  legal  advice  on the  implications  of
         signing a compromise agreement in the attached form.

8.       It is hereby agreed that all provisions in the Service  Agreement,  the
         agreement  between the Director and HLSG plc dated 31 May 1994, and the
         agreement made between the Company,  the Director and HLSG plc dated 10
         March 1995  relating to payments to the Director on a change of control
         are hereby deleted with immediate effect.

9.       The Director will, immediately upon termination of his employment, sign
         and date a letter  resigning all  directorships he holds in the Company
         or any Group Company with immediate effect in the form attached hereto.
         Should  the  Director  fail to do so within  seven  days of the date of
         termination of employment the Company is hereby irrevocably  authorised
         to  appoint  a person  in his name and on his  behalf  to  execute  any
         documents and to do all things requisite to give effect thereto.

10.      The Company  agrees that it will consult with the Director prior to any
         announcement  being made within the Group or externally  concerning the
         termination of his employment.

11.      The  Director  acknowledges  that he has not and will not  receive  any
         payment from the Company or any Group Company in respect of his loss of
         office as director of the Company or any Group Company as  contemplated
         by paragraph 9 above.

12.  This Deed shall be  governed  by and  interpreted  in  accordance  with the
English Law.

IN WITNESS whereof this Deed has been entered into the day and year first before
written.

SIGNED by                           (Director)       )
and                                 (Secretary)      )
and thereby executed by HUNTINGDON                   )
LIFE SCIENCES LIMITED                                )
as its Deed                                          )



SIGNED by                           (Director)       )
and                                 (Secretary)      )
and thereby executed by HUNTINGDON                   )
LIFE SCIENCES GROUP PLC                              )
as its Deed                                          )



SIGNED AS A DEED AND DELIVERED                       )
By the said CHRISTOPHER FREDERICK                    )
CLIFFE                                               )
In the presence of



Name:

Address:

Occupation:


<PAGE>


                                WITHOUT PREJUDICE
                               SUBJECT TO CONTRACT


DRAFT COMPROMISE AGREEMENT

This Agreement is made the [insert date of completion]  between  Huntingdon Life
Sciences Limited (the "Company") and Christopher Cliffe ("the Employee").

1.       Following the  termination  of the  employment of the Employee with the
         Company on 31  December  1998 the  Company  will  within 14 days of the
         later  of (a)  the  date  of this  Agreement;  and  (b) the  Employee's
         compliance  with  paragraph  3  below  pay to the  Employee  the sum of
         (pound)250,000  (less such income tax and national  insurance if any as
         the Company is obliged by law to deduct and less any  outstanding  sums
         owed by the  Employee to the Company for example by way of loan) by way
         of compensation for loss of employment.

2.       The Employee  hereby agrees to be  responsible of the payment of any
         tax in respect of the sum payable under  paragraph 1 (other than for
         the avoidance of doubt,  any tax withheld by the Company in paying
         the sum to the  Employee)  and the  Employee  hereby  agrees to
         indemnify  the  Company and any other company in the group of
         companies  of which the Company is a member  ("group  Company") and
         keep the Company and all other Group  Companies  indemnified on a
         continuing  basis against any claim or demand which is made  against
         the Company  and/or any Group  Company in  respect of any liability of
         the Company  and/or  any Group  Company to deduct an amount if tax or
         an amount in respect of tax from the payment  made  under this
         Agreement, including any interest or penalties imposed in connection
         therewith  and  including,  but without  prejudice to the  generality
         of the  foregoing,  any claim or demand made in respect of United
         Kingdom Income Tax or PAYE.

3.       Before  payment under  paragraph 1 is made the Employee shall return to
         the Company any remaining  property  belonging to the Company which has
         been  in his  possession  or  under  his  control,  including  (without
         limitation)  the  facsimile  machine,  credit  card,  keys,  and  other
         documents  (whether  confidential  or not) or any other property in his
         possession  or under his control by reason of his  employment  with the
         Company (and any copies of any of the  foregoing) and the Company shall
         not unreasonably  withhold its confirmation  that all such property has
         been returned.

4.       The  arrangements  et out in this  Agreement  are in full and final
         settlement  of all or any claims,  costs,  expenses or rights of
         action of any kind  whatsoever  or howsoever arising (whether arising
         under  common law,  statute or  otherwise  and whether  arising in the
         United  Kingdom or in any other country in the world and  including, 
         but not limited  to,  any claims  under the Equal Pay Act 1970, Sex 
         Discrimination   Act   1975,Race   Relations  Act  1976,   Trade Union
         and  Labour   Relations (Consolidation)  Act 1992,  Employment Rights
         Act  1996,  Disability  Discrimination  Act 1995 or in respect  of
         which a Conciliation Officer is authorised  to act or any  claims
         arising  under  any directive or other  legislation  applicable  in
         the United  Kingdom by virtue of the United  Kingdom's membership  of
         the  European Union which the Employee has or may have  against the
         Company or any Group  Company or against any  employee,  agent or
         office of the Company or Group  Company and whether arising  directly
         or indirectly  out of or in connection  with the  Employee's  contract
         of employment with the Company and any collateral contracts with any
         Group Company, their termination or otherwise.

5.       The Employee hereby confirms that he continues to be bound by the terms
         of the restrictions contained in clause 9 of his contract of employment
         with the Company.

6.       The Employee acknowledges that by reason of his continuing  obligations
         of confidentiality he is obliged to keep the circumstances  surrounding
         the  termination  of his  employment  and the  terms of this  Agreement
         confidential,  but that nothing in this Agreement  shall prevent either
         party  from   disclosing   information   as  required  by  law  or  any
         self-regulatory organisation or in order to take professional advice or
         as ordered by a court of competent jurisdiction.

7.       The Employee  hereby  warrants that he has not at any time  committed a
         repudiatory  breach of his contract of  employment  which would entitle
         the Company to terminate his employment without notice.

8.       The  Employee  has  received  independent  advice from  [insert name of
         adviser] acting in [his/her] capacity as a qualified lawyer in the firm
         of [insert name of firm] who holds a current practising  certificate as
         to the terms and effect of this  Agreement and in particular its effect
         on the  ability  of  the  Employee  to  pursue  his  rights  before  an
         employment tribunal.  There was in force when [adviser] gave the advice
         referred to in this paragraph a contract of insurance,  or an indemnity
         provided for members of a profession or professional  body covering the
         risk  of a  claim  by the  Employee  in  respect  of  loss  arising  in
         consequence of this advice.

9.       This  Agreement  satisfies the  conditions  for  regulating  compromise
         agreements  under the Sex  Discrimination  Act 1975, Race Relations Act
         1976,  Trade Union and Labour Relations  (Consolidation)  Act 1992, the
         Employment Rights Act 1996 and the Disability Discrimination Act 1995.

10.      [Adviser] by signing this letter  confirms to the Company  that, to the
         best of  [his/her]  knowledge  and belief,  the  statements  set out in
         paragraphs 7 and 8 are correct.

11.      The  Employee  shall on the  date of his  signature  to this  Agreement
         resign as a director of the Company  and all other Group  Companies  in
         which he holds directorship in the form attached hereto.

This Agreement although marked "Without Prejudice" will upon signature by all of
the parties be treated as an open document  evidencing  an agreement  binding on
the parties.


Signed.......................................
         For and on behalf of the Company

Dated    .......................................





Signed.......................................
         The Employee

Dated    .......................................




Signed.......................................
         [Adviser]

Dated    .......................................




<PAGE>


To the Board of Directors
Huntingdon Life Sciences Group plc
Huntingdon Life Sciences Ltd
[insert names of other Group Companies in which directorships are held]








Dear Sirs

Huntingdon Life Sciences Group plc
Huntingdon Research Centre ltd
[insert names of other Group Companies in which directorships are held]


I hereby  resign  from the  office  of  Director  of the  above  companies  with
immediate  effect,  and I  acknowledge  and  confirm  that I have  no  claim  of
whatsoever  kind  outstanding for  compensation  or otherwise  against the above
companies,  their  servants,  officers,  agents or  employees  in respect of the
termination of my directorships.

Yours faithfully







SIGNED and DELIVERED as a DEED      )
By CHRISTOPHER FREDERICK            )
CLIFFE                              )
In the presence of                  )








</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-2
<SEQUENCE>9
<TEXT>

Conditional upon completion of
the cash subscription, placing
and open offer to be made by
Huntingdon Life Sciences Group Plc
in August/September 1998


DATED                                                              1998







                          (1) HUNTINGDON LIFE SCIENCES
                                     LIMITED


                                     - and -


                               (2) MARTYN SANDFORD





                      ------------------------------------

                                SERVICE AGREEMENT
                      -------------------------------------










                                 Charles Russell
                              8-10 New Fetter Lane
                                     London
                                    EC4A 1RS

                            Telephone: 0171 203 5000
                              Ref: DJSG/GXW/25407/3


<PAGE>


                                    CONTENTS
                                                                   Page

1.       DEFINITIONS AND INTERPRETATION..............................1

2.       TERM OF EMPLOYMENT..........................................2

3.       DUTIES......................................................2

4.       GRATUITIES AND CODES OF CONDUCT.............................3

5.       REMUNERATION................................................3

6.       PENSION SCHEME..............................................4

7.       OTHER BENEFITS..............................................4

8.       COMPANY CAR.................................................6

9.       EXPENSES....................................................6

10.      HOLIDAYS....................................................6

11.      ILLNESS.....................................................6

12.      RESTRICTIONS DURING EMPLOYMENT..............................7

13.      INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY.......................................8

14.      CONFIDENTIALITY............................................10

15.      TERMINATION OF EMPLOYMENT..................................11

16.      SUSPENSION.................................................12

17.      RESIGNATION AND RETURN OF COMPANY PROPERTY.................13

18.      RECONSTRUCTION OR AMALGAMATION.............................13

19.      RESTRICTIONS...............................................13

20.      SEVERABILITY...............................................16

21.      NOTICES....................................................16

22.      STATUTORY INFORMATION......................................17

23.      MISCELLANEOUS..............................................17

SCHEDULE............................................................18



<PAGE>




T H I S   A G R E E M E N T  is made on                              1998

B E T W E E N :

(1)   HUNTINGDON LIFE SCIENCES LIMITED whose registered  office is at Woolley
      Road, Alconbury,  Huntingdon,  Cambridgeshire PE17 5HS (the "Company");
      and

(2)   MARTYN SANDFORD of [                                ] (the "Executive").

IT IS AGREED that the Company shall employ the Executive and the Executive shall
serve the  Company  as Finance  Director,  UK  Operations,  of  Huntingdon  Life
Sciences  Group  plc  on the  following  terms  and  subject  to  the  following
conditions (the "Agreement"):



<PAGE>


1.       DEFINITIONS AND INTERPRETATION

(1)      In this Agreement unless the context  otherwise  requires the following
         expressions shall have the following meanings:

         "Associated Company"        means:

                    (a)      a  company  which  is not a
                             Subsidiary  of  the  Parent
                             but  whose  issued   equity
                             share  capital  (as defined
                             in  s744  of the  Companies
                             Act 1985) is owned as to at
                             least 20% by the  Parent or
                             one  of  its  Subsidiaries;
                             and

                    (b)      a Subsidiary (as defined below)

         "Board"             the board of directors for the time being of the
                             Parent ;

         "Group"             means the Parent and Associated Companies for the
                             time being and "Group  Company"  means any one of
                             them;

         "Parent"            means Huntingdon Life Sciences Group
                             plc or any  other  company  which is
                             for  the  time  being  the  ultimate
                             holding   company  of  the   Company
                             within  the  meaning  of s736 of the
                             Companies Act 1985;

         "Subsidiary"        means a Subsidiary within the meaning of s736 of
                             the Companies Act 1985;

         "Working Day"       means a day other than a Saturday, Sunday or bank
                             or other public  holiday in England.

(2)      Any  reference to a statutory  provision shall be deemed to include a
         reference to any statutory modification or re-enactment of it.

(3)      The headings in this Agreement are for  convenience only and shall not
         affect its construction or interpretation.

(4)      References in this  Agreement to a person include a body corporate and
         an  incorporated  association  of persons and  references to a company
         include any body corporate.

(5)  Where  appropriate,  references  to  the  Executive  include  his  personal
representatives.

2.   TERM OF EMPLOYMENT

(1)  The employment of the Executive shall be deemed to have commenced on 1
     July 1994 and (subject to  termination as provided in clauses 11(2) and
     15 below) shall be for an indefinite  period terminable by either party
     giving to the other 12 months notice in writing.

(2)  Notwithstanding clause 2(1) above the employment of the Executive shall
     automatically terminate on the day when the Executive reaches age 65 or
     the normal  retiring age applicable to directors of the Group from time
     to time.

(3)  The  Executive  represents  and  warrants  that he is not  bound  by or
     subject to any court order, agreement, arrangement or undertaking which
     in any way restricts or prohibits him from entering into this Agreement
     or performing his duties under it.

3.  DUTIES

(1) The Executive shall during his employment under this Agreement:

    (a)  perform the duties and exercise the powers which the Board may
         from time to time  properly  assign to him in his  capacity as
         Finance  Director of UK Operations  or in connection  with the
         conduct and  management  of the business of the Company or the
         business of any Group Company  (including serving on the board
         of such Group  Company or on any other  executive  body or any
         committee of such a company); and

    (b)  do all in his  power  to  promote,  develop  and  protect  the
         business of the Company and any Group Company and at all times
         and in all respects  conform to and comply with the proper and
         reasonable directions and regulations of the Board.

(2)  The Executive  shall give to the Board such  information  regarding the
     affairs  of the  Parent  and,  where  relevant,  the  Group as it shall
     require,  and in  any  event,  report  regularly  and  keep  the  Board
     informed.

(3)  The Executive's  normal place of work shall be the Company's offices at
     Huntingdon but the Executive  shall work in any place within the United
     Kingdom  which the Board may  require  and he may be required to travel
     abroad when required by the Company for the proper  performance  of his
     duties.

(4)  If the Company  requires the Executive to work  permanently  at a place
     which  necessitates  a move from his present  home  address the Company
     will  reimburse  the Executive  for all removal  expenses  directly and
     reasonably  incurred  as a  result  of  the  Company's  requirement  in
     accordance with the Company's  relocation  policy, as from time to time
     in force.

4.   GRATUITIES AND CODES OF CONDUCT

(1)  Other than routine  hospitality  and  corporate  gifts of nominal value
     received in the ordinary  course of business,  the Executive  shall not
     directly  or  indirectly  accept any  commission,  rebate,  discount or
     gratuity  in cash or in kind  from any  person  who has or is  having a
     business relationship with any Group Company.

(2)  The  Executive  shall  comply  (and  procure  that his spouse and minor
     children shall comply) with all applicable rules and regulations of the
     London Stock Exchange,  the New York Stock Exchange,  the US Securities
     Exchange  Commission,  and any codes of  conduct  adopted  by the Group
     concerning  dealings in securities  for the time being in force and any
     other relevant regulatory authority.

5.   REMUNERATION

(1)  The Company  shall pay to the  Executive a salary at the rate of
     (pound)70,000  gross per year  inclusive of any directors' fees payable
     to him.

(2)  The  Executive's  salary shall accrue from day to day and be payable by
     equal monthly instalments in arrears on the 20th day of each month.

(3)  The  Executive's  salary  shall be  reviewed  once in every  year.  The
     undertaking  of a salary  review  does not confer a  contractual  right
     (whether  express  or  implied)  to any  increase  in  salary  and  the
     Executive acknowledges that any salary increase is at the discretion of
     the Company.

(4)  Notwithstanding  anything to the contrary in the Company's  Articles of
     Association  the salary in (1) above shall be  inclusive of any fees to
     which the Executive may be entitled as a director of the Company or any
     Group Company and the Executive shall waive his right to any such fee.

(5)  The Company may, in its  absolute  discretion,  pay to the  Executive a
     bonus of such amount  payable at such  time(s) as may from time to time
     be determined by the Board.

6.   PENSION SCHEME

(1)  The  Company  currently  operates  a  contributory  pension  scheme the
     Huntingdon Life Sciences Pension and Life Assurance Scheme of which the
     Executive  Section shall be  applicable to the Executive  (the "Pension
     Scheme").  The  Executive  has received an outline  description  of the
     terms of the Pension  Scheme in the form of [the  member's  explanatory
     booklet].  The full  terms  are set out in the  trust  deeds  and rules
     governing  the  Pension  Scheme and  includes  the  Company's  right to
     wind-up the Pension Scheme.  Copies of those documents are available to
     the Executive on request.

(2)  The  Executive  is entitled  to remain a member of the  Pension  Scheme
     subject to its terms.  The Company  shall  deduct from the  Executive's
     salary  any  contributions  payable  by him  from  time  to time to the
     Pension  Scheme  or any other  pension  scheme of the Group of which he
     becomes a member.

7.   OTHER BENEFITS

(1)  The Executive is entitled to membership of the following  schemes (each
     referred to below as an "insurance scheme"):

     (a) a  salary   continuance   on   long-term   disability
         insurance  scheme  applicable  to  employees  in  the
         Executive's  category generally  providing such cover
         for the  Executive  as the  Company  may from time to
         time notify to him;

     (b) a life  insurance  scheme  under  which a lump sum  benefit 
         shall be payable on the Executive's death while the Agreement
         continues;  the benefit of which shall be paid to such  dependants 
         of the  Executive or other  beneficiary  as the trustees of the
         scheme select at their discretion,  after  considering any
         beneficiaries  identified by the Executive in any  expression of his
         wishes  delivered to the trustees  before his death.  The benefit is
         equal to 4 times the  Executive's  basic annual salary at his death
         but basic annual  salary for this purpose  shall not exceed the 
         allowable maximum (earnings cap);

     (c) a personal accident insurance applicable to employees
         in  the   Executive's   category   generally   scheme
         providing such cover for the Executive as the Company
         may from time to time notify to him.

(2)  Benefits  under any  insurance  scheme shall be subject to the rules of
     the scheme(s) and the terms of any applicable  insurance policy and are
     conditional  upon  the  Executive  complying  with and  satisfying  any
     applicable  requirements  of the  insurers.  Copies of these  rules and
     policies and particulars of the  requirements  shall be provided to the
     Executive on request.  Provided  that the Company  shall have  complied
     with and satisfied with any requirements of the insurers  applicable to
     it, (but without  prejudice to the Company's  rights pursuant to clause
     7(4) below) the Company shall not have any liability to pay any benefit
     to the Executive under any insurance  scheme unless it receives payment
     of the benefit from the insurer under the scheme.

(3)  Any  insurance  scheme  which is  provided  for the  Executive  is also
     subject to the Company's  right to alter the cover provided or any term
     of the scheme or to cease to provide  (without  replacement) the scheme
     at any time if in the  reasonable  opinion  of the  Board  the state of
     health of the  Executive  is or becomes such that the Company is unable
     to  insure  the  benefits  under  the  scheme  at the  normal  premiums
     applicable to a person of the Executive's age.

(4)  The provision of any  insurance  scheme does not in any way prevent the
     Company from lawfully terminating this Agreement in accordance with the
     provisions in clause 15 even if to do so would deprive the Executive of
     membership of or cover under any such scheme.

8.   COMPANY CAR

     The Company  shall  provide the Executive  with a  non-pensionable  car
     allowance of (pound)750.00 gross per month.

9.   EXPENSES

     The Company shall reimburse or procure that the Executive is reimbursed
     all  reasonable   travelling   hotel  and  other  expenses  wholly  and
     necessarily incurred by him in the performance of his duties under this
     Agreement on production of  appropriate  receipts and other evidence of
     expenditure as required by the Company.

10.  HOLIDAYS

(1)  The Executive shall (in addition to the usual public and bank holidays)
     be  entitled  to 25  Working  Days  holiday  in each  holiday  year (as
     specified by the Company) to be taken at a time or times agreed between
     the Executive and the Company.

(2)  Holiday  entitlement  in one year  cannot  be  carried  forward  to any
     subsequent holiday years except by prior arrangement with the Company.

(3)  In the holiday year in which employment commences or terminates holiday
     shall accrue on a pro rata basis  (excluding  fractions of days). If on
     the  termination  of the  employment  the  Executive  has  exceeded his
     accrued  holiday  entitlement  the excess may be deducted from any sums
     owing to him. If the  Executive  has accrued  holiday  owing to him the
     Company  may at its  discretion  require  the  Executive  to  take  the
     outstanding  holiday during any notice period or make a payment in lieu
     instead.

(4)   If under  clause 16 the  Executive is not required to attend the office
      during any period of notice,  he will not accrue  holiday  during  that
      period. If the Executive's employment is terminated without notice, the
      Executive  will not be entitled to holiday pay for holiday  which would
      have accrued during the notice period had the Executive continued to be
      employed or at work (whichever is applicable) throughout that time.

11.   ILLNESS

(1)   The Executive shall continue to be paid during  sickness  absence (such
      payment to be inclusive of any  statutory  sick pay or social  security
      benefits to which he may be entitled)  for a total of up to 26 weeks in
      any 12 consecutive calendar months.

(2)   Thereafter  the  Executive  shall  continue  to be paid  salary  at the
      discretion  of the Company but so that the  Company may  terminate  the
      employment  of the Executive at any time after the end of the 26th week
      of  absence  in any 12  consecutive  calendar  months  by giving to the
      Executive not less than 3 months' notice in writing.

(3)   If the  Executive is incapable  of  performing  his duties by reason of
      injury sustained  wholly or partly as a result of negligence,  nuisance
      or breach of any  statutory  duty on the part of a third  party and the
      Executive  recovers  an  amount  by way of  compensation  for  loss  of
      earnings from that third party, he shall pay to the Company a sum equal
      to the amount  recovered  or, if less,  the  amount  paid to him by the
      Company  under clause 11(1) and/or (2) above in respect of the relevant
      period of absence as a result of that injury.

(4)   The  Company  shall be entitled  to require  the  Executive  to undergo
      examinations by a medical adviser  appointed or approved by the Company
      and the Executive  authorises  the medical  adviser and/or will provide
      such  consents as are  necessary to disclose to the Company the results
      of such examinations.

12.   RESTRICTIONS DURING EMPLOYMENT

(1)   During the  continuance  of his  employment  under this  Agreement  the
      Executive  shall unless  prevented by incapacity  devote his whole time
      and  attention  to the  business of the Company and the Group and shall
      not without the prior written consent of the Board:

       (a)  engage in any other  business  (other  than  charity  or other
            unpaid  work in the nature of a hobby  which does not  detract
            from the Executive's performance of his duties); or

       (b)  be concerned or interested in any other  business of a similar
            nature to or  competitive  with that carried on by the Company
            or any Group Company; or

       (c)  solicit  the custom of,  canvass,  approach  or deal with,  in
            competition with the Company or any Group Company,  any person
            (including any company, firm, organisation or other entity) to
            whom the  Company or any Group  Company  supplies  services or
            with whom the Company or any Group Company is in  negotiations
            or discussions regarding the possible supply of services; or

       (d)  discourage  any such  person  referred to in clause 12 (1) (c)
            above from  conducting or continuing to conduct  business with
            the Company or any Group  Company on the best terms  available
            to the Company or any Group Company; or

       (e)  induce or attempt to induce any director or senior employee of
            the Company or any Group  Company and with whom the  Executive
            has  material  dealings  in the course of his  employment,  to
            leave the employment of the Company or any Group Company

    provided that nothing in this clause shall  preclude the Executive from
    holding or being otherwise interested in any shares or other securities
    of any company which is quoted on any  recognised  investment  exchange
    (as defined by section 207(1)  Financial  Services Act 1986) so long as
    the interest of the Executive in such shares or other  securities  does
    not  extend  to more  than 5% of the  total  amount  of such  shares or
    securities.

(2) If during his employment under this Agreement the Executive shall cease
    to be a director of the Parent  (otherwise than by reason of his death,
    resignation or disqualification pursuant to the articles of association
    of the Parent or by statute or court order or under clause 15(2) below)
    his employment  shall  continue and the terms of this Agreement  (other
    than  those  relating  to the  holding  of  office of  director)  shall
    continue  in full  force and  effect  and the  Executive  shall have no
    claims  against  the Parent or the Company in respect of his ceasing to
    be a director.

13.  INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY

(1)  If the Executive makes, or if the Executive participates in making, any
     invention,  any design  (whether  registerable  or not), or any work in
     which copyright  and/or database right subsists and which relates to or
     is useful in connection with the business of the Company, the Parent or
     of any  Associated  Company  the  Executive  shall  disclose  it to the
     Company  immediately,  whether or not it is the property of the Company
     and:-

     (a)  in the case of an invention give the Company full  particulars
          of the invention  together with all information,  data (in all
          forms and in all media),  drawings  and models,  embodying  or
          relating to the invention,  irrespective  of the nature of the
          invention or when it was made; and

     (b)  in the case of designs or copyright works, a copy of all such designs
          and works;

          and,  in  addition,  the  Company  may call for the same to be
          delivered  forthwith to an  authorised  representative  at any
          time.

(2)  If an  invention  made by the  Executive is the property of the Company
     under  Section 39 Patents  Act 1977 the  Executive  shall  execute  all
     documents  and do all things which may be  necessary  or desirable  for
     obtaining the best possible patent, utility model or similar protection
     for  the  invention  ("Protection")  in  territories  specified  by the
     Company and the Executive hereby assigns to the Company with full title
     guarantee all his or her rights to the  invention and all  applications
     for  Protection  and to the  grant of  Protection  in  respect  of that
     invention and shall execute all documents and do all such things as may
     be necessary or desirable for  perfecting  the assignment and obtaining
     registration of it in all territories in the name of the Company.

(3)  Notwithstanding  clause  13(2)  the  Company  shall  not be  under  any
     obligation to apply for  Protection in respect of any invention made by
     the Executive.

(4)  If any  invention is the  property of the  Executive  under  Section 39
     Patents  Act 1977 and  relates to or is useful in  connection  with the
     business or any product or service of the Company, the Parent or of any
     Associated  Company the Executive  shall not grant a licence or execute
     an assignment in respect of that  invention to any other person without
     first  offering  to grant a licence or execute  an  assignment  for the
     benefit of the Company on terms no less  favourable  than those offered
     to the third party,  and the Company shall have fifteen working days in
     which to accept or reject the offer.

(5)  If during the course of his or her work for the Company (whether in the
     course of normal duties or not and whether or not during normal working
     hours) the Executive makes, or participates in the making of any design
     (whether  registrable  or not) or any  work in which  copyright  and/or
     database  right  subsists the Executive  hereby  assigns to the Company
     with full title  guarantee  and,  where  appropriate,  by way of future
     assignment,  all such rights for the full term thereof  throughout  the
     world,  provided that the assignment  shall not extend to those designs
     or works which are created by the Executive  wholly  outside his or her
     normal  working  hours and wholly  unconcerned  with his or her service
     under this Agreement.

(6)  In the case of designs and copyright which are registrable  anywhere in
     the world the  Executive  shall execute all documents and do all things
     which are  necessary  or  desirable  for  obtaining  the best  possible
     registration in respect of such rights in territories  specified by the
     Company and shall  assign to the Company such rights as are not already
     held by the Company in all subsequent  registrations  and  applications
     for registration.

(7) The  Executive  hereby  irrevocably  appoints  the  Company  to be  the
    Executive's  attorney  in his or her name and on his or her  behalf  to
    sign or execute any  document or do anything  and  generally to use the
    Executive's  name for the  purpose  of giving to the  Company  the full
    benefit of the  provisions of this clause 13 and in favour of any third
    party a certificate  in writing signed by any director or the secretary
    of the  Company  that any  document or act falls  within the  authority
    conferred by this clause shall be conclusive  evidence that that is the
    case.

(8) The Executive waives all moral rights (whether arising under Chapter IV
    of the  Copyright  Designs and Patents  Act 1988 or  otherwise,  to the
    extent permissible under the relevant legislation in each jurisdiction)
    in works to which clause 13(5) applies.

(9) The  Executive  warrants  that he or she is not  bound  by any  legally
    enforceable  obligations  owed to persons  other than the Company which
    would  prevent  the  Executive  from  complying  with the terms of this
    Agreement and the Executive  shall not without  proper  licence use any
    inventions  or  information  in  breach  of  rights  owed to or held by
    persons  other  than the  Company or copy or adapt  copyright  works or
    designs owned by persons other than the Company.

(10)   All the  provisions of this clause 13 shall survive  termination of the
       Executive's   employment   insofar  as  they   relate  to   inventions,
       information, designs and works in which copyright and/or database right
       subsists which were created before termination.

14.    CONFIDENTIALITY

(1)    The  Executive  shall not  (except  in the  proper  performance  of his
       duties)  during or after his employment has ended divulge to any person
       or otherwise make use of (and shall use his best  endeavours to prevent
       the  publication or disclosure of) any trade secret or secret  research
       process or any  confidential  information  concerning  the  business or
       finances of the Company or any Group  Company or any of their  dealings
       transactions or affairs or any trade secret or secret research  process
       or any such confidential information concerning any of their suppliers,
       agents, distributors or clients.

(2)    Confidential   information  includes,   but  is  not  limited  to:  any
       information of a secret,  confidential or private nature,  in any form,
       concerning the business,  accounts,  finances, customer lists, research
       projects,  pricing and/or discount  policy,  future business  strategy,
       marketing,   tenders,  price  sensitive   information,   employees  and
       officers,   formulae,    processors,   working   methods,   inventions,
       intellectual  property  and other plans and strategy of the Company and
       any Group Company or any of its or their respective clients.

(3)   The restrictions in clauses 14 (1) and 14 (2) shall not apply to
      information which:

       (i)   comes into the public domain  otherwise than by a breach by the
             Executive of his  obligations under this Agreement; or

       (ii)  is  disclosed  to the  Executive  by a third party who has not
             received  it directly  or  indirectly  from the Company or any
             Group Company; or

       (iii) must be disclosed by any applicable law or the requirements of
             a  relevant  regulatory  authority,  to  the  extent  of  such
             required disclosure.

15.      TERMINATION OF EMPLOYMENT

(1)      The Company may at any time and in its absolute  discretion (whether or
         not any  notice of  termination  has been  given by the  Company or the
         Executive  under  clause  2(1)  above)  terminate  the  Agreement  with
         immediate effect and make a payment in lieu of notice.

(2)      The  employment of the Executive  may be terminated by the Company 
         without  notice or payment in lieu of notice if:

         (a)  the Executive is guilty of any serious misconduct or any other
              conduct which affects or is likely to affect prejudicially the
              interests  of the Company or any Group  Company to which he is
              required to render services under this Agreement; or

         (b)  fails or neglects  efficiently and diligently to discharge his
              duties in any  material  respect  or  commits  any  serious or
              material repeated breach or non-observance by the Executive of
              any of the provisions contained in this Agreement; or

         (c)  the Executive has an interim receiving order made against him,
              becomes  bankrupt or makes any  composition or enters into any
              deed of arrangement with his creditors in circumstances  which
              would have a material adverse effect on the Company, the Group
              or their respective reputations; or

         (d)  the Executive is convicted of any arrestable  criminal offence
              (other than an offence under road traffic  legislation  in the
              United Kingdom or elsewhere for which a fine or  non-custodial
              penalty  is  imposed)  in  circumstances  which  would  have a
              material  adverse  effect on the  Company,  the Group or their
              respective reputations; or

         (e)  the Executive is  disqualified  from holding office in another
              company  by  reason  of  an  order  of a  court  of  competent
              jurisdiction; or

         (f)  the Executive shall become of unsound mind or become a patient
              under the Mental Health Act 1983; or

         (g)  the  Executive is convicted of an offence  under the Companies
              Securities  (Insider  Dealing)  Act  1985 or under  any  other
              present or future statutory enactment or regulations  relating
              to insider dealings under English or New York law; or

         (h)  otherwise than:

                i)   at the request of the Company; or

                ii)  in   circumstances   which  a  reasonable   director,
                     properly  advised,  would  regard  as  requiring  his
                     resignation

              the Executive ceases to be a director of the Company.

16.  SUSPENSION

(1)  The Company may suspend the  Executive at any time on full pay to allow
     the Company to investigate  any complaint made against the Executive in
     relation to his employment  with the Company  provided that the fact of
     the  suspension  will only be  disclosed to employees of the Company or
     any Group Company who are involved in the investigation  and/or to whom
     such  disclosure  may,  in the  reasonable  opinion  of the  Company be
     necessary for genuine operational reasons.

(2)  During  any  period  of  notice of  termination  (whether  given by the
     Company or the  Executive)  the Company shall be under no obligation to
     assign any duties to the  Executive  or to provide any work for him and
     shall be entitled to exclude him from its premises,  provided that this
     shall not  affect the  Executive's  entitlement  to receive  his normal
     salary and other  contractual  benefits  other than that the  Executive
     will cease to accrue holiday during any such period.

17.  RESIGNATION AND RETURN OF COMPANY PROPERTY

(1)  Upon the  termination  by whatever  means of this Agreement the Executive
     shall:

      (a) immediately  resign  from  his  office  as a  director  of the
          Company and from such offices held by him in any Group Company
          without claim for compensation; and

      (b) immediately   deliver  to  the   Company   all  credit   cards
          motor-cars,   keys,  computer  media  and  other  property  in
          whatever  form,  of or relating to the business of the Company
          or of any  Group  Company  which may be in his  possession  or
          under his power or control.

      (c) immediately  deliver to the Company all details  which must be
          provided  under clause 13 above  together with all material in
          whatever  form which  describes  or embodies  the  concepts or
          designs which are so disclosed.

(2) If the  Executive  fails to comply  with  clause  17(1) the  Company is
    hereby irrevocably authorised to appoint some person in his name and on
    his behalf to sign and complete any documents or do any thing necessary
    to give effect to this clause.

(3) The Executive  shall not without the consent of the Company at any time
    after the termination of this Agreement  represent  himself still to be
    connected with the Company or any Group Company.

18. RECONSTRUCTION OR AMALGAMATION

     If the  employment of the Executive  under this agreement is terminated
     by  reason  of the  liquidation  of the  Company  for  the  purpose  of
     reconstruction or amalgamation and the Executive is offered  employment
     with any concern or undertaking  resulting from the  reconstruction  or
     amalgamation on terms and conditions not less favourable than the terms
     of this  Agreement  then the Executive  shall have no claim against the
     Company  or any Group  Company in  respect  of the  termination  of his
     employment under this Agreement.

19.   RESTRICTIONS

(1)   Definitions

      In this clause:

      (a)      "Termination Date" means the date on which the employment
               terminates;

      (b)      "Person" includes any company, firm, organisation or other
               entity;

      (b)      "Area"  means  any  country  in the  world  where on the
               Termination  Date the  Company  was
               supplying services

      (c)      "Business" means any business carried on by the Company or any
                  Group Company which relates to the provision of  pre-clinical,
                  early   clinical   and/or   non-clinical   biological   safety
                  evaluation  services to the  pharmaceutical and biotechnology,
                  agrochemical and other chemical industries;

         (d)      "Client"  means  any  Person  to whom the  Company  or a Group
                  Company supplied during the 6 months preceding the Termination
                  Date  and  with  whom  at any  time  during  such  period  the
                  Executive   was  actively   involved  in  the  course  of  his
                  employment;

         (d)      "Prospective Client" means any Person with whom the Company or
                  a Group Company had negotiations or discussions  regarding the
                  possible  supply of services  during the 6 months  immediately
                  preceding  the  Termination  Date  and  with  whom at any time
                  during such period the Executive was actively  involved in the
                  course of his employment.

(2)      The  Executive  covenants  with the Company and as trustee for each
         Group Company that in the event of the Executive terminating his
         employment:

         (1)      Non-competition

                  the  Executive  shall  not for a period  of 6 months  from the
                  Termination  Date  directly or  indirectly  be  interested  or
                  concerned in any business  which is carried on in the Area and
                  which is  competitive  or  likely to be  competitive  with the
                  Business  being  carried on at the  Termination  Date and with
                  which the Executive was actively  involved  during the 6 month
                  period ending on the Termination Date.

                  For this purpose, the Executive is concerned in a business if:

                  (a)   he carries it on as principal or agent; or

                  (b)   he  is  a  partner,  director,   employee,  secondee,
                        consultant  or  agent  in,  of or to any  Person  who
                        carries on the business; or

                  (c)   subject to clause 12(1)  above,  he has any direct or
                        indirect   financial   interest  (as  shareholder  or
                        otherwise) in any Person who carries on the business.

         (2)      Non-solicitation

                  the Executive  shall not for a period  of 6 months  from the
                  Termination Date in the Area directly or indirectly:

                  (a)  canvass or solicit  business for services  similar to
                       those  being  provided  by  the  Company  or a  Group
                       Company as at the Termination Date from any Client or
                       Prospective Client;

                  (b)  seek  to do  business  or deal  with  any  Client  or
                       Prospective  Client in respect of services similar to
                       those  being  provided  by  the  Company  or a  Group
                       Company as at the Termination Date; or

                  (c)  canvass or solicit  business from any supplier of the
                       Company or a Group  Company  with whom the  Executive
                       was actively  involved  during the 6 months ending on
                       the  Termination  Date or persuade  such  supplier to
                       cease to supply,  or to restrict or vary the terms of
                       supply to the Company or a Group Company or otherwise
                       interfere  with  the  relationship   between  such  a
                       supplier and the Company or a Group Company.

         (3)    Non-poaching

                the  Executive  shall not for a period  of 6 months  after the
                Termination  Date directly or indirectly  induce or attempt to
                induce any senior  employee of the Company or a Group  Company
                who is  engaged  in any  business  activity  carried on by the
                Company or a Group  Company at the  Termination  Date and with
                whom  the  Executive   during  the  6  months  ending  on  the
                Termination  Date had  material  dealings in the course of his
                employment,  to leave the employment of the Company or a Group
                Company  (whether or not this would be a breach of contract by
                that employee for the purposes of being involved in or engaged
                in the types of business  referred to in  sub-clauses  2(1)(a)
                and (b) above).

(3)    The  restrictions  in this clause are  considered  by the parties to be
       reasonable and the validity of each sub-clause shall not be affected if
       any of the others is invalid.  If any of the  restrictions  is void but
       would  be valid  if some  part of the  restriction  were  deleted,  the
       restriction  in question shall apply with such  modification  as may be
       necessary to make it valid.

(4)    The Executive  acknowledges  that the  provisions of this clause are no
       more extensive than is reasonable to protect the Company or the Group.

(5)    If the Executive is suspended  from work under the provisions of clause
       16, the Company may, at its sole  discretion,  agree that the period of
       time during which the non-competition  restriction  contained in clause
       19(2)(1) is enforceable,  starts to run from the date of the suspension
       and not from the Termination Date.

20.   SEVERABILITY

      If  any  of  the  provisions  of  this  Agreement   become  invalid  or
      unenforceable  for any reason by virtue of applicable law the remaining
      provisions  shall continue in full force and effect and the Company and
      the  Executive  hereby  undertake to use all  reasonable  endeavours to
      replace any legally invalid or unenforceable provision with a provision
      which will  promise to the  parties  (as far as  practicable)  the same
      commercial  results as well  intended or  contemplated  by the original
      provision.

21.   NOTICES

(1)   Any notice required or permitted to be given under this Agreement shall
      be given in writing  delivered  personally  or sent by first class post
      pre-paid  recorded  delivery  (air mail if overseas) or by facsimile to
      the party due to receive  such  notice at, in the case of the  Company,
      its  registered  office from time to time (and marked for the attention
      of the  Company  Secretary)  and,  in the  case of the  Executive,  his
      address as set out in this  Agreement  (or such  address as he may have
      notified to the Company in accordance with this clause).

(2)   Any notice  delivered  personally  shall be deemed to be received  when
      delivered to the address provided in this Agreement and any notice sent
      by pre-paid  recorded  delivery post shall be deemed (in the absence of
      evidence of earlier receipt) to be received 2 days after posting and in
      proving the time of despatch  it shall be  sufficient  to show that the
      envelope  containing  such notice was properly  addressed,  stamped and
      posted.  A notice  sent by  facsimile  shall  be  deemed  to have  been
      received on receipt by the sender of confirmation  in the  transmission
      report that the facsimile had been sent.

22.    STATUTORY INFORMATION

(1)  The Schedule to this  Agreement  sets out  information  required to be
     given to the Executive by the Employment Rights Act 1996.

23.  MISCELLANEOUS

(1)  This Agreement is governed by and shall be construed in accordance
     with the laws of England.

(2)  The parties to this Agreement  submit to the exclusive  jurisdiction 
     of the English courts.

(3)  This Agreement  contains the entire  understanding  between the parties
     and  supersedes  all  previous  agreements  and  arrangements  (if any)
     relating to the employment of the Executive by the Company (which shall
     be deemed to have been terminated by mutual consent).

(4)  The Executive  authorises  the Company to deduct from any  remuneration
     payable to the Executive  under this Agreement any sums due from him to
     the Company or any Group  Company  including  the cost of repairing any
     damage  to  Company  or  any  Group  Company  property  caused  by  the
     Executive.

THIS AGREEMENT has been executed as a DEED and is intended to be and is hereby
delivered on the date on page 1.


<PAGE>


                                    SCHEDULE

                    STATEMENT OF PARTICULARS PURSUANT TO THE
                           EMPLOYMENT RIGHTS ACT 1996



<PAGE>


1.   The  Executive's  period of  continued  employment  commenced on 1 July
     1994. A period of employment with a previous employer does not count as
     part of the Executive's continuous employment with the Company.

2.   A contracting-out certificate is in force in respect of this employment

3.   There is no formal  disciplinary or grievance  procedure  applicable to
     this position.  Any grievance which the Executive wishes to exercise or
     any disciplinary  action taken by the Company will be dealt with by the
     Chairman.  If the  Executive is  dissatisfied  with any decision he can
     within 5  working  days of that  decision  appeal  to the  Board  whose
     decision  shall be final and  binding.  For the  avoidance of doubt any
     disciplinary  or grievance  procedure does not form part of the service
     agreement.

4.   The Executive is under no obligation to work overseas for periods
     exceeding 1 month.

5.   The Company is not a party to any collective agreement which  affects the
     Executive's employment.


Executed as a Deed by
HUNTINGDON LIFE SCIENCES
LIMITED                                 ................................
                                                               Director


                                        ................................
                                             Director/Company Secretary


<PAGE>



Signed as a Deed by
MARTYN SANDFORD
in the presence of:                     .................................


                                        .................................
                                                     Signature of Witness


                                        .................................
                                                          Name of Witness



                                        .................................
                                                                  Address

                                        .................................
                                                               Occupation




</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-2
<SEQUENCE>10
<TEXT>

Conditional upon completion of
the cash subscription, placing
and open offer to be made by
Huntingdon Life Sciences Group Plc
in August/September 1998

DATED                                                                1998







                           (1)      HUNTINGDON LIFE SCIENCES
                                    LIMITED


                                     - and -


                           (2)      DR CAMERON MACKAY
                                    MACDONALD





                      ------------------------------------

                                SERVICE AGREEMENT
                      -------------------------------------









                                 Charles Russell
                              8-10 New Fetter Lane
                                     London
                                    EC4A 1RS

                            Telephone: 0171 203 5000
                              Ref: DJSG/GXW/25407/3


<PAGE>




                                    CONTENTS
                                                                      Page

1.       DEFINITIONS AND INTERPRETATION.................................1

2.       TERM OF EMPLOYMENT.............................................2

3.       DUTIES.........................................................2

4.       GRATUITIES AND CODES OF CONDUCT................................3

5.       REMUNERATION...................................................3

6.       PENSION SCHEME.................................................4

7.       OTHER BENEFITS.................................................4

8.       COMPANY CAR....................................................6

9.       EXPENSES.......................................................6

10.      HOLIDAYS.......................................................6

11.      ILLNESS........................................................6

12.      RESTRICTIONS DURING EMPLOYMENT.................................7

13.      INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY..........................................8

14.      CONFIDENTIALITY...............................................10

15.      TERMINATION OF EMPLOYMENT.....................................11

16.      SUSPENSION....................................................12

17.      RESIGNATION AND RETURN OF COMPANY PROPERTY....................13

18.      RECONSTRUCTION OR AMALGAMATION................................13

19.      RESTRICTIONS..................................................13

20.      SEVERABILITY..................................................16

21.      NOTICES.......................................................16

22.      STATUTORY INFORMATION.........................................17

23.      MISCELLANEOUS.................................................17

SCHEDULE...............................................................18



<PAGE>



T H I S   A G R E E M E N T  is made on                        1998

B E T W E E N :

(1)      HUNTINGDON LIFE SCIENCES LIMITED whose registered  office is at Woolley
         Road, Alconbury,  Huntingdon,  Cambridgeshire PE17 5HS (the "Company");
         and

(2)      DR CAMERON MACKAY MACDONALD of[        
                                                     ] (the "Executive").

IT IS AGREED that the Company shall employ the Executive and the Executive shall
serve the Company as Strategic  Development Director of Huntingdon Life Sciences
Group plc on the following  terms and subject to the following  conditions  (the
"Agreement"):



<PAGE>


1.       DEFINITIONS AND INTERPRETATION

(1)      In this Agreement unless the context  otherwise  requires the following
         expressions shall have the following meanings:

         "Associated Company"        means:

                                     (a)      a  company  which  is not a
                                              Subsidiary  of  the  Parent
                                              but  whose  issued   equity
                                              share  capital  (as defined
                                              in  s744  of the  Companies
                                              Act 1985) is owned as to at
                                              least 20% by the  Parent or
                                              one  of  its  Subsidiaries;
                                              and

                                     (b)      a Subsidiary (as defined below)

         "Board"                    the board of directors for the time being of
                                    the Parent ;

         "Group"                    means  the Parent and Associated Companies 
                                    for the  time being and "Group Company"
                                    means any one of them;

         "Parent"                   means Huntingdon Life Sciences Group
                                    plc or any  other  company  which is
                                    for  the  time  being  the  ultimate
                                    holding   company  of  the   Company
                                    within  the  meaning  of s736 of the
                                    Companies Act 1985;

         "Subsidiary"               means  a  Subsidiary  within  the  meaning
                                    of  s736 of the Companies Act 1985;

         "Working Day"              means a day other  than a  Saturday, Sunday
                                    or bank or other public holiday in England.

(2)      Any  reference  to a statutory provision shall be deemed to include a
         reference to any statutory modification or re-enactment of it.

(3)      The headings in this Agreement are for  convenience  only and shall not
         affect its construction or interpretation.

(4)      References in this  Agreement to a person  include a body corporate and
         an  incorporated  association  of persons and  references  to a company
         include any body corporate.

(5)  Where  appropriate,  references  to  the  Executive  include  his  personal
     representatives.

2.       TERM OF EMPLOYMENT

(1)      The employment of the Executive  shall be deemed to have commenced on 1
         November 1996 and (subject to  termination as provided in clauses 11(2)
         and 15 below) shall be for an  indefinite  period  terminable by either
         party giving to the other 12 months notice in writing.

(2)      Notwithstanding clause 2(1) above the employment of the Executive shall
         automatically terminate on the day when the Executive reaches age 65 or
         the normal  retiring age applicable to directors of the Group from time
         to time.

(3)      The  Executive  represents  and  warrants  that he is not  bound  by or
         subject to any court order, agreement, arrangement or undertaking which
         in any way restricts or prohibits him from entering into this Agreement
         or performing his duties under it.

3.       DUTIES

(1) The Executive shall during his employment under this Agreement:

         (a)      perform the duties and exercise the powers which the Board may
                  from time to time  properly  assign to him in his  capacity as
                  Strategic  Development  Director  or in  connection  with  the
                  conduct and  management  of the business of the Company or the
                  business of any Group Company  (including serving on the board
                  of such Group  Company or on any other  executive  body or any
                  committee of such a company); and

         (b)      do all in his  power  to  promote,  develop  and  protect  the
                  business of the Company and any Group Company and at all times
                  and in all respects  conform to and comply with the proper and
                  reasonable directions and regulations of the Board.

(2)      The Executive  shall give to the Board such  information  regarding the
         affairs  of the  Parent  and,  where  relevant,  the  Group as it shall
         require,  and in  any  event,  report  regularly  and  keep  the  Board
         informed.

(3)      The Executive's  normal place of work shall be the Company's offices at
         Huntingdon but the Executive  shall work in any place within the United
         Kingdom  which the Board may  require  and he may be required to travel
         abroad when required by the Company for the proper  performance  of his
         duties.

(4)      If the Company  requires the Executive to work  permanently  at a place
         which  necessitates  a move from his present  home  address the Company
         will  reimburse  the Executive  for all removal  expenses  directly and
         reasonably  incurred  as a  result  of  the  Company's  requirement  in
         accordance with the Company's  relocation  policy, as from time to time
         in force.

4.       GRATUITIES AND CODES OF CONDUCT

(1)      Other than routine  hospitality  and  corporate  gifts of nominal value
         received in the ordinary  course of business,  the Executive  shall not
         directly  or  indirectly  accept any  commission,  rebate,  discount or
         gratuity  in cash or in kind  from any  person  who has or is  having a
         business relationship with any Group Company.

(2)      The  Executive  shall  comply  (and  procure  that his spouse and minor
         children shall comply) with all applicable rules and regulations of the
         London Stock Exchange,  the New York Stock Exchange,  the US Securities
         Exchange  Commission,  and any codes of  conduct  adopted  by the Group
         concerning  dealings in securities  for the time being in force and any
         other relevant regulatory authority.

5.       REMUNERATION

(1)      The Company  shall pay to the  Executive a salary at the rate of
         (pound)98,000  gross per year inclusive of any directors'fees payable
         to him.

(2)      The Executive's  salary shall accrue from day to day and be payable by
         equal monthly instalments in arrears on the 20th day of each month.

(3)      The  Executive's  salary  shall be  reviewed  once in every  year.  The
         undertaking  of a salary  review  does not confer a  contractual  right
         (whether  express  or  implied)  to any  increase  in  salary  and  the
         Executive acknowledges that any salary increase is at the discretion of
         the Company.

(4)      Notwithstanding  anything to the contrary in the Company's  Articles of
         Association  the salary in (1) above shall be  inclusive of any fees to
         which the Executive may be entitled as a director of the Company or any
         Group Company and the Executive shall waive his right to any such fee.

(5)      The Company may, in its  absolute  discretion,  pay to the  Executive a
         bonus of such amount  payable at such  time(s) as may from time to time
         be determined by the Board.

6.       PENSION SCHEME

(1)      The  Company  currently  operates  a  contributory  pension  scheme the
         Huntingdon Life Sciences Pension and Life Assurance Scheme of which the
         Executive  Section shall be  applicable to the Executive  (the "Pension
         Scheme").  The  Executive  has received an outline  description  of the
         terms of the Pension  Scheme in the form of [the  member's  explanatory
         booklet].  The full  terms  are set out in the  trust  deeds  and rules
         governing  the  Pension  Scheme and  includes  the  Company's  right to
         wind-up the Pension Scheme.  Copies of those documents are available to
         the Executive on request.

(2)      The  Executive  is entitled  to remain a member of the  Pension  Scheme
         subject to its terms.  The Company  shall  deduct from the  Executive's
         salary  any  contributions  payable  by him  from  time  to time to the
         Pension  Scheme  or any other  pension  scheme of the Group of which he
         becomes a member.

7.       OTHER BENEFITS

(1)      The Executive is entitled to membership of the following  schemes (each
         referred to below as an "insurance scheme"):

                  (a)      a  salary   continuance   on   long-term   disability
                           insurance  scheme  applicable  to  employees  in  the
                           Executive's  category generally  providing such cover
                           for the  Executive  as the  Company  may from time to
                           time notify to him;

                  (b)      a life  insurance  scheme  under  which a lump  sum 
                           benefit  shall be payable on the Executive's  death
                           while the Agreement  continues; the benefit of which
                           shall be paid to such  dependants  of the  Executive
                           or other  beneficiary  as the trustees of the scheme
                           select at their discretion, after considering  any
                           beneficiaries  identified by the Executive in any 
                           expression of his wishes delivered to the trustees
                           before his  death.  The benefit  is equal to 4 times
                           the Executive's basic annual salary at his death but
                           basic  annual  salary  for this purpose shall not
                           exceed the allowable maximum (earnings cap);

                  (c)      a personal accident insurance applicable to employees
                           in  the   Executive's   category   generally   scheme
                           providing such cover for the Executive as the Company
                           may from time to time notify to him.

(2)      Benefits  under any  insurance  scheme shall be subject to the rules of
         the scheme(s) and the terms of any applicable  insurance policy and are
         conditional  upon  the  Executive  complying  with and  satisfying  any
         applicable  requirements  of the  insurers.  Copies of these  rules and
         policies and particulars of the  requirements  shall be provided to the
         Executive on request.  Provided  that the Company  shall have  complied
         with and satisfied with any requirements of the insurers  applicable to
         it, (but without  prejudice to the Company's  rights pursuant to clause
         7(4) below) the Company shall not have any liability to pay any benefit
         to the Executive under any insurance  scheme unless it receives payment
         of the benefit from the insurer under the scheme.

(3)      Any  insurance  scheme  which is  provided  for the  Executive  is also
         subject to the Company's  right to alter the cover provided or any term
         of the scheme or to cease to provide  (without  replacement) the scheme
         at any time if in the  reasonable  opinion  of the  Board  the state of
         health of the  Executive  is or becomes such that the Company is unable
         to  insure  the  benefits  under  the  scheme  at the  normal  premiums
         applicable to a person of the Executive's age.

(4)      The provision of any  insurance  scheme does not in any way prevent the
         Company from lawfully terminating this Agreement in accordance with the
         provisions in clause 15 even if to do so would deprive the Executive of
         membership of or cover under any such scheme.

8.       COMPANY CAR

         The Company  shall  provide the Executive  with a  non-pensionable  car
         allowance of (pound)750.00 gross per month.

9.       EXPENSES

         The Company shall reimburse or procure that the Executive is reimbursed
         all  reasonable   travelling   hotel  and  other  expenses  wholly  and
         necessarily incurred by him in the performance of his duties under this
         Agreement on production of  appropriate  receipts and other evidence of
         expenditure as required by the Company.

10.      HOLIDAYS

(1)      The Executive shall (in addition to the usual public and bank holidays)
         be  entitled  to 25  Working  Days  holiday  in each  holiday  year (as
         specified by the Company) to be taken at a time or times agreed between
         the Executive and the Company.

(2)      Holiday  entitlement  in one year  cannot  be  carried  forward  to any
         subsequent holiday years except by prior arrangement with the Company.

(3)      In the holiday year in which employment commences or terminates holiday
         shall accrue on a pro rata basis  (excluding  fractions of days). If on
         the  termination  of the  employment  the  Executive  has  exceeded his
         accrued  holiday  entitlement  the excess may be deducted from any sums
         owing to him. If the  Executive  has accrued  holiday  owing to him the
         Company  may at its  discretion  require  the  Executive  to  take  the
         outstanding  holiday during any notice period or make a payment in lieu
         instead.

(4)      If under  clause 16 the  Executive is not required to attend the office
         during any period of notice,  he will not accrue  holiday  during  that
         period. If the Executive's employment is terminated without notice, the
         Executive  will not be entitled to holiday pay for holiday  which would
         have accrued during the notice period had the Executive continued to be
         employed or at work (whichever is applicable) throughout that time.

11.      ILLNESS

(1)      The Executive shall continue to be paid during  sickness  absence (such
         payment to be inclusive of any  statutory  sick pay or social  security
         benefits to which he may be entitled)  for a total of up to 26 weeks in
         any 12 consecutive calendar months.

(2)      Thereafter  the  Executive  shall  continue  to be paid  salary  at the
         discretion  of the Company but so that the  Company may  terminate  the
         employment  of the Executive at any time after the end of the 26th week
         of  absence  in any 12  consecutive  calendar  months  by giving to the
         Executive not less than 3 months' notice in writing.

(3)      If the  Executive is incapable  of  performing  his duties by reason of
         injury sustained  wholly or partly as a result of negligence,  nuisance
         or breach of any  statutory  duty on the part of a third  party and the
         Executive  recovers  an  amount  by way of  compensation  for  loss  of
         earnings from that third party, he shall pay to the Company a sum equal
         to the amount  recovered  or, if less,  the  amount  paid to him by the
         Company  under clause 11(1) and/or (2) above in respect of the relevant
         period of absence as a result of that injury.

(4)      The  Company  shall be entitled  to require  the  Executive  to undergo
         examinations by a medical adviser  appointed or approved by the Company
         and the Executive  authorises  the medical  adviser and/or will provide
         such  consents as are  necessary to disclose to the Company the results
         of such examinations.

12.      RESTRICTIONS DURING EMPLOYMENT

(1)      During the  continuance  of his  employment  under this  Agreement  the
         Executive  shall unless  prevented by incapacity  devote his whole time
         and  attention  to the  business of the Company and the Group and shall
         not without the prior written consent of the Board:

         (a)      engage in any other  business  (other  than  charity  or other
                  unpaid  work in the nature of a hobby  which does not  detract
                  from the Executive's performance of his duties); or

         (b)      be concerned or interested in any other  business of a similar
                  nature to or  competitive  with that carried on by the Company
                  or any Group Company; or

         (c)      solicit  the custom of,  canvass,  approach  or deal with,  in
                  competition with the Company or any Group Company,  any person
                  (including any company, firm, organisation or other entity) to
                  whom the  Company or any Group  Company  supplies  services or
                  with whom the Company or any Group Company is in  negotiations
                  or discussions regarding the possible supply of services; or

         (d)      discourage  any such  person  referred to in clause 12 (1) (c)
                  above from  conducting or continuing to conduct  business with
                  the Company or any Group  Company on the best terms  available
                  to the Company or any Group Company; or

         (e)      induce or attempt to induce any director or senior employee of
                  the Company or any Group  Company and with whom the  Executive
                  has  material  dealings  in the course of his  employment,  to
                  leave the employment of the Company or any Group Company

         provided that nothing in this clause shall  preclude the Executive from
         holding or being otherwise interested in any shares or other securities
         of any company which is quoted on any  recognised  investment  exchange
         (as defined by section 207(1)  Financial  Services Act 1986) so long as
         the interest of the Executive in such shares or other  securities  does
         not  extend  to more  than 5% of the  total  amount  of such  shares or
         securities.

(2)      If during his employment under this Agreement the Executive shall cease
         to be a director of the Parent  (otherwise than by reason of his death,
         resignation or disqualification pursuant to the articles of association
         of the Parent or by statute or court order or under clause 15(2) below)
         his employment  shall  continue and the terms of this Agreement  (other
         than  those  relating  to the  holding  of  office of  director)  shall
         continue  in full  force and  effect  and the  Executive  shall have no
         claims  against  the Parent or the Company in respect of his ceasing to
         be a director.

13.      INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY

(1)      If the Executive makes, or if the Executive participates in making, any
         invention,  any design  (whether  registerable  or not), or any work in
         which copyright  and/or database right subsists and which relates to or
         is useful in connection with the business of the Company, the Parent or
         of any  Associated  Company  the  Executive  shall  disclose  it to the
         Company  immediately,  whether or not it is the property of the Company
         and:-

         (a)      in the case of an invention give the Company full  particulars
                  of the invention  together with all information,  data (in all
                  forms and in all media),  drawings  and models,  embodying  or
                  relating to the invention,  irrespective  of the nature of the
                  invention or when it was made; and

         (b)      in the case of designs  or  copyright  works,  a copy of all
                  such designs and works;

                  and,  in  addition,  the  Company  may call for the same to be
                  delivered  forthwith to an  authorised  representative  at any
                  time.

(2)      If an  invention  made by the  Executive is the property of the Company
         under  Section 39 Patents  Act 1977 the  Executive  shall  execute  all
         documents  and do all things which may be  necessary  or desirable  for
         obtaining the best possible patent, utility model or similar protection
         for  the  invention  ("Protection")  in  territories  specified  by the
         Company and the Executive hereby assigns to the Company with full title
         guarantee all his or her rights to the  invention and all  applications
         for  Protection  and to the  grant of  Protection  in  respect  of that
         invention and shall execute all documents and do all such things as may
         be necessary or desirable for  perfecting  the assignment and obtaining
         registration of it in all territories in the name of the Company.

(3)      Notwithstanding  clause  13(2)  the  Company  shall  not be  under  any
         obligation to apply for  Protection in respect of any invention made by
         the Executive.

(4)      If any  invention is the  property of the  Executive  under  Section 39
         Patents  Act 1977 and  relates to or is useful in  connection  with the
         business or any product or service of the Company, the Parent or of any
         Associated  Company the Executive  shall not grant a licence or execute
         an assignment in respect of that  invention to any other person without
         first  offering  to grant a licence or execute  an  assignment  for the
         benefit of the Company on terms no less  favourable  than those offered
         to the third party,  and the Company shall have fifteen working days in
         which to accept or reject the offer.

(5)      If during the course of his or her work for the Company (whether in the
         course of normal duties or not and whether or not during normal working
         hours) the Executive makes, or participates in the making of any design
         (whether  registrable  or not) or any  work in which  copyright  and/or
         database  right  subsists the Executive  hereby  assigns to the Company
         with full title  guarantee  and,  where  appropriate,  by way of future
         assignment,  all such rights for the full term thereof  throughout  the
         world,  provided that the assignment  shall not extend to those designs
         or works which are created by the Executive  wholly  outside his or her
         normal  working  hours and wholly  unconcerned  with his or her service
         under this Agreement.

(6)      In the case of designs and copyright which are registrable  anywhere in
         the world the  Executive  shall execute all documents and do all things
         which are  necessary  or  desirable  for  obtaining  the best  possible
         registration in respect of such rights in territories  specified by the
         Company and shall  assign to the Company such rights as are not already
         held by the Company in all subsequent  registrations  and  applications
         for registration.

(7)      The  Executive  hereby  irrevocably  appoints  the  Company  to be  the
         Executive's  attorney  in his or her name and on his or her  behalf  to
         sign or execute any  document or do anything  and  generally to use the
         Executive's  name for the  purpose  of giving to the  Company  the full
         benefit of the  provisions of this clause 13 and in favour of any third
         party a certificate  in writing signed by any director or the secretary
         of the  Company  that any  document or act falls  within the  authority
         conferred by this clause shall be conclusive  evidence that that is the
         case.

(8)      The Executive waives all moral rights (whether arising under Chapter IV
         of the  Copyright  Designs and Patents  Act 1988 or  otherwise,  to the
         extent permissible under the relevant legislation in each jurisdiction)
         in works to which clause 13(5) applies.

(9)      The Executive warrants that he is not bound by any legally  enforceable
         obligations  owed to persons other than the Company which would prevent
         the Executive  from  complying with the terms of this Agreement and the
         Executive  shall not  without  proper  licence  use any  inventions  or
         information  in breach of rights owed to or held by persons  other than
         the  Company  or copy or  adapt  copyright  works or  designs  owned by
         persons other than the Company.

(10)     All the  provisions of this clause 13 shall survive  termination of the
         Executive's   employment   insofar  as  they   relate  to   inventions,
         information, designs and works in which copyright and/or database right
         subsists which were created before termination.

14.      CONFIDENTIALITY

(1)      The  Executive  shall not  (except  in the  proper  performance  of his
         duties)  during or after his employment has ended divulge to any person
         or otherwise make use of (and shall use his best  endeavours to prevent
         the  publication or disclosure of) any trade secret or secret  research
         process or any  confidential  information  concerning  the  business or
         finances of the Company or any Group  Company or any of their  dealings
         transactions or affairs or any trade secret or secret research  process
         or any such confidential information concerning any of their suppliers,
         agents, distributors or clients.

(2)      Confidential   information  includes,   but  is  not  limited  to:  any
         information of a secret,  confidential or private nature,  in any form,
         concerning the business,  accounts,  finances, customer lists, research
         projects,  pricing and/or discount  policy,  future business  strategy,
         marketing,   tenders,  price  sensitive   information,   employees  and
         officers,   formulae,    processors,   working   methods,   inventions,
         intellectual  property  and other plans and strategy of the Company and
         any Group Company or any of its or their respective clients.

(3)      The restrictions in clauses 14 (1) and 14 (2) shall not apply to
         information which:

         (i)      comes into the public  domain  otherwise than by a breach by
                  the Executive of his obligations under this Agreement; or

         (ii)     is  disclosed  to the  Executive  by a third party who has not
                  received  it directly  or  indirectly  from the Company or any
                  Group Company; or

         (iii)    must be disclosed by any applicable law or the requirements of
                  a  relevant  regulatory  authority,  to  the  extent  of  such
                  required disclosure.

15.      TERMINATION OF EMPLOYMENT

(1)      The Company may at any time and in its absolute  discretion (whether or
         not any  notice of  termination  has been  given by the  Company or the
         Executive  under  clause  2(1)  above)  terminate  the  Agreement  with
         immediate effect and make a payment in lieu of notice.

(2)      The  employment  of the  Executive  may be  terminated  by the  Company
         without notice or payment in lieu of notice if:

         (a)      the Executive is guilty of any serious misconduct or any other
                  conduct which affects or is likely to affect prejudicially the
                  interests  of the Company or any Group  Company to which he is
                  required to render services under this Agreement; or

         (b)      fails or neglects  efficiently and diligently to discharge his
                  duties in any  material  respect  or  commits  any  serious or
                  material repeated breach or non-observance by the Executive of
                  any of the provisions contained in this Agreement; or

         (c)      the Executive has an interim receiving order made against him,
                  becomes  bankrupt or makes any  composition or enters into any
                  deed of arrangement with his creditors in circumstances  which
                  would have a material adverse effect on the Company, the Group
                  or their respective reputations; or

         (d)      the Executive is convicted of any arrestable  criminal offence
                  (other than an offence under road traffic  legislation  in the
                  United Kingdom or elsewhere for which a fine or  non-custodial
                  penalty  is  imposed)  in  circumstances  which  would  have a
                  material  adverse  effect on the  Company,  the Group or their
                  respective reputations; or

         (e)      the Executive is  disqualified  from holding office in another
                  company  by  reason  of  an  order  of a  court  of  competent
                  jurisdiction; or

         (f)      the Executive shall become of unsound mind or become a patient
                  under the Mental Health Act 1983; or

         (g)      the  Executive is convicted of an offence  under the Companies
                  Securities  (Insider  Dealing)  Act  1985 or under  any  other
                  present or future statutory enactment or regulations  relating
                  to insider dealings under English or New York law; or

         (h)      otherwise than:

                  i)       at the request of the Company; or

                  ii)      in   circumstances  which  a  reasonable  director,
                           properly  advised,  would  regard  as requiring  his
                           resignation

                  the Executive ceases to be a director of the Parent.

16.      SUSPENSION

(1)      The Company may suspend the  Executive at any time on full pay to allow
         the Company to investigate  any complaint made against the Executive in
         relation to his employment  with the Company  provided that the fact of
         the  suspension  will only be  disclosed to employees of the Company or
         any Group Company who are involved in the investigation  and/or to whom
         such  disclosure  may,  in the  reasonable  opinion  of the  Company be
         necessary for genuine operational reasons.

(2)      During  any  period  of  notice of  termination  (whether  given by the
         Company or the  Executive)  the Company shall be under no obligation to
         assign any duties to the  Executive  or to provide any work for him and
         shall be entitled to exclude him from its premises,  provided that this
         shall not  affect the  Executive's  entitlement  to receive  his normal
         salary and other  contractual  benefits  other than that the  Executive
         will cease to accrue holiday during any such period.

17.      RESIGNATION AND RETURN OF COMPANY PROPERTY

(1) Upon the  termination  by whatever  means of this  Agreement  the  Executive
shall:

         (a)      immediately resign from his office as a director of the Parent
                  and from such offices held by him in any Group Company without
                  claim for compensation; and

         (b)      immediately   deliver  to  the   Company   all  credit   cards
                  motor-cars,   keys,  computer  media  and  other  property  in
                  whatever  form,  of or relating to the business of the Company
                  or of any  Group  Company  which may be in his  possession  or
                  under his power or control.

         (c)      immediately  deliver to the Company all details  which must be
                  provided  under clause 13 above  together with all material in
                  whatever  form which  describes  or embodies  the  concepts or
                  designs which are so disclosed.

(2)      If the  Executive  fails to comply  with  clause  17(1) the  Company is
         hereby irrevocably authorised to appoint some person in his name and on
         his behalf to sign and complete any documents or do any thing necessary
         to give effect to this clause.

(3)      The  Executive  shall not without the consent of the Parent at any time
         after the termination of this Agreement  represent  himself still to be
         connected with the Company or any Group Company.

18.      RECONSTRUCTION OR AMALGAMATION

         If the  employment of the Executive  under this agreement is terminated
         by  reason  of the  liquidation  of the  Company  for  the  purpose  of
         reconstruction or amalgamation and the Executive is offered  employment
         with any concern or undertaking  resulting from the  reconstruction  or
         amalgamation on terms and conditions not less favourable than the terms
         of this  Agreement  then the Executive  shall have no claim against the
         Company  or any Group  Company in  respect  of the  termination  of his
         employment under this Agreement.

19.      RESTRICTIONS

(1)      Definitions

         In this clause:

         (a)      "Termination Date" means the date on which the employment
                  terminates;

         (b)      "Person" includes any company, firm, organisation or other
                  entity;

         (b)      "Area"  means  any  country  in the  world  where on the
                  Termination Date the Company was supplying services

         (c)      "Business" means any business carried on by the Company or any
                  Group Company which relates to the provision of  pre-clinical,
                  early   clinical   and/or   non-clinical   biological   safety
                  evaluation  services to the  pharmaceutical and biotechnology,
                  agrochemical and other chemical industries;

         (d)      "Client"  means  any  Person  to whom the  Company  or a Group
                  Company supplied during the 6 months preceding the Termination
                  Date  and  with  whom  at any  time  during  such  period  the
                  Executive   was  actively   involved  in  the  course  of  his
                  employment;

         (d)      "Prospective Client" means any Person with whom the Company or
                  a Group Company had negotiations or discussions  regarding the
                  possible  supply of services  during the 6 months  immediately
                  preceding  the  Termination  Date  and  with  whom at any time
                  during such period the Executive was actively  involved in the
                  course of his employment.

(2)      The Executive  covenants with the Company and as trustee for each Group
         Company that in the event of the Executive terminating his employment:

         (1)      Non-competition

                  the  Executive  shall  not for a period  of 6 months  from the
                  Termination  Date  directly or  indirectly  be  interested  or
                  concerned in any business  which is carried on in the Area and
                  which is  competitive  or  likely to be  competitive  with the
                  Business  being  carried on at the  Termination  Date and with
                  which the Executive was actively  involved  during the 6 month
                  period ending on the Termination Date.

                  For this purpose, the Executive is concerned in a business if:

                  (a)      he carries it on as principal or agent; or

                  (b)      he  is  a  partner,  director,   employee,  secondee,
                           consultant  or  agent  in,  of or to any  Person  who
                           carries on the business; or

                  (c)      subject to clause 12(1)  above,  he has any direct or
                           indirect   financial   interest  (as  shareholder  or
                           otherwise) in any Person who carries on the business.

         (2)      Non-solicitation

                  the  Executive  shall  not for a period  of 6 months  from the
                  Termination Date in the Area directly or indirectly:

                  (a)      canvass or solicit  business for services  similar to
                           those  being  provided  by  the  Company  or a  Group
                           Company as at the Termination Date from any Client or
                           Prospective Client;

                  (b)      seek  to do  business  or deal  with  any  Client  or
                           Prospective  Client in respect of services similar to
                           those  being  provided  by  the  Company  or a  Group
                           Company as at the Termination Date; or

                  (c)      canvass or solicit  business from any supplier of the
                           Company or a Group  Company  with whom the  Executive
                           was actively  involved  during the 6 months ending on
                           the  Termination  Date or persuade  such  supplier to
                           cease to supply,  or to restrict or vary the terms of
                           supply to the Company or a Group Company or otherwise
                           interfere  with  the  relationship   between  such  a
                           supplier and the Company or a Group Company.

         (3)      Non-poaching

                  the  Executive  shall not for a period  of 6 months  after the
                  Termination  Date directly or indirectly  induce or attempt to
                  induce any senior  employee of the Company or a Group  Company
                  who is  engaged  in any  business  activity  carried on by the
                  Company or a Group  Company at the  Termination  Date and with
                  whom  the  Executive   during  the  6  months  ending  on  the
                  Termination  Date had  material  dealings in the course of his
                  employment,  to leave the employment of the Company or a Group
                  Company  (whether or not this would be a breach of contract by
                  that employee for the purposes of being involved in or engaged
                  in the  types  of  business  referred  to in  sub-clause  2(1)
                  above).

(3)      The  restrictions  in this clause are  considered  by the parties to be
         reasonable and the validity of each sub-clause shall not be affected if
         any of the others is invalid.  If any of the  restrictions  is void but
         would  be valid  if some  part of the  restriction  were  deleted,  the
         restriction  in question shall apply with such  modification  as may be
         necessary to make it valid.

(4)      The Executive  acknowledges  that the  provisions of this clause are no
         more extensive than is reasonable to protect the Company or the Group.

(5)      If the Executive is suspended  from work under the provisions of clause
         16, the Company may, at its sole  discretion,  agree that the period of
         time during which the non-competition  restriction  contained in clause
         19(2)(1) is enforceable,  starts to run from the date of the suspension
         and not from the Termination Date.

20.      SEVERABILITY

         If  any  of  the  provisions  of  this  Agreement   become  invalid  or
         unenforceable  for any reason by virtue of applicable law the remaining
         provisions  shall continue in full force and effect and the Company and
         the  Executive  hereby  undertake to use all  reasonable  endeavours to
         replace any legally invalid or unenforceable provision with a provision
         which will  promise to the  parties  (as far as  practicable)  the same
         commercial  results as were  intended or  contemplated  by the original
         provision.

21.      NOTICES

(1)      Any notice required or permitted to be given under this Agreement shall
         be given in writing  delivered  personally  or sent by first class post
         pre-paid  recorded  delivery  (air mail if overseas) or by facsimile to
         the party due to receive  such  notice at, in the case of the  Company,
         its  registered  office from time to time (and marked for the attention
         of the  Company  Secretary)  and,  in the  case of the  Executive,  his
         address as set out in this  Agreement  (or such  address as he may have
         notified to the Company).

(2)      Any notice  delivered  personally  shall be deemed to be received  when
         delivered to the address provided in this Agreement and any notice sent
         by pre-paid  recorded  delivery post shall be deemed (in the absence of
         evidence of earlier receipt) to be received 2 days after posting and in
         proving the time of despatch  it shall be  sufficient  to show that the
         envelope  containing  such notice was properly  addressed,  stamped and
         posted.  A notice  sent by  facsimile  shall  be  deemed  to have  been
         received on receipt by the sender of confirmation  in the  transmission
         report that the facsimile had been sent.

22.      STATUTORY INFORMATION

(1)      The  Schedule to this  Agreement  sets out  information  required to be
         given to the Executive by the Employment Rights Act 1996.

23.      MISCELLANEOUS

(1)      This Agreement is governed by and shall be construed in accordance with
         the laws of England.

(2)      The parties to this Agreement  submit to the exclusive  jurisdiction of
         the English courts.

(3)      This Agreement  contains the entire  understanding  between the parties
         and  supersedes  all  previous  agreements  and  arrangements  (if any)
         relating to the employment of the Executive by the Company (which shall
         be deemed to have been terminated by mutual consent).

(4)      The Executive  authorises  the Company to deduct from any  remuneration
         payable to the Executive  under this Agreement any sums due from him to
         the Company or any Group  Company  including  the cost of repairing any
         damage  to  Company  or  any  Group  Company  property  caused  by  the
         Executive.

THIS  AGREEMENT  has been executed as a DEED and is intended to be and is hereby
delivered on the date on page 1.


<PAGE>


                                    SCHEDULE

                    STATEMENT OF PARTICULARS PURSUANT TO THE
                           EMPLOYMENT RIGHTS ACT 1996



<PAGE>


1.       The Executive's period of continued  employment commenced on 1 November
         1996. A period of employment with a previous employer does not count as
         part of the Executive's continuous employment with the Company.

2.       A contracting-out certificate is in force in respect of this employment

3.       There is no formal  disciplinary or grievance  procedure  applicable to
         this position.  Any grievance which the Executive wishes to exercise or
         any disciplinary  action taken by the Company will be dealt with by the
         Chairman.  If the  Executive is  dissatisfied  with any decision he can
         within 5  working  days of that  decision  appeal  to the  Board  whose
         decision  shall be final and  binding.  For the  avoidance of doubt any
         disciplinary  or grievance  procedure does not form part of the service
         agreement.

4. The Executive is under no obligation to work overseas for periods exceeding 1
month.

5.       The Company is not a party to any  collective  agreement  which affects
         the Executive's employment.

Executed as a Deed by
HUNTINGDON LIFE SCIENCES
LIMITED                                     ................................
                                                                    Director


                                            ................................
                                                 Director/Company Secretary

Signed as a Deed by
DR CAMERON MACKAY MACDONALD
in the presence of:                        .................................


                                           .................................
                                                        Signature of Witness


                                           .................................
                                                             Name of Witness



                                           .................................
                                                                    Address

                                           .................................
                                                                 Occupation




</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-2
<SEQUENCE>11
<TEXT>

Conditional upon completion of
the cash  subscription, placing
and open offer to be made by 
Huntingdon Life Sciences Group Plc
in August/September 1998

                             DATED           1998



                       HUNTINGDON LIFE SCIENCES GROUP PLC


                                       and


                      HARFORD CONSULTANCY SERVICES LIMITED


                                       and


                                ROGER PINNINGTON




                                DEED OF VARIATION






           






                                 Charles Russell
                              8-10 New Fetter Lane
                                     London
                                    EC4A 1RS

                               Tel: 0171 203 5000

                            


<PAGE>


THIS AGREEMENT is made on the         day of                          1998

B E T W E E N:


1.  HUNTINGDON  LIFE  SCIENCES  GROUP  PLC  whose  registered  office is at
    Woolley  Road,  Alconbury,  Huntingdon,  Cambridgeshire  PE17  5HS (the
    "Company"); and

2.  HARFORD CONSULTANCY  SERVICES LIMITED [whose registered office is at 15
    Lennox Gardens Mews, London SW1X ODP] (the "Consultant"); and

3.  ROGER PINNINGTON of [                            ] ("Mr Pinnington")


AND IS SUPPLEMENTAL to:-



<PAGE>


1.   A  consultancy  agreement  dated  20 March  1995  between  the  Company
     (formerly  Huntingdon  International  Holdings plc) and the  Consultant
     (the "Consultancy Agreement"); and

2.   An  agreement  dated  20  March  1995  between  the  Company  (formerly
     Huntingdon   International   Holdings  plc)  and  Mr  Pinnington   (the
     "Supplemental Agreement"); and

3.   An  agreement  dated 23 December  1995  between  the Company  (formerly
     Huntingdon   International   Holdings  plc) and  the  Consultant (the
     "Variation Agreement").



<PAGE>


WHEREAS



<PAGE>


1.  The Consultant is currently  providing the services of Mr Pinnington to
    the Company and the Group (as  defined  below) and the parties  wish to
    record the terms of a variation  agreed  between them in respect of the
    Consultancy  Agreement,  the  Supplemental  Agreement and the Variation
    Agreement.

IT IS AGREED as follows:



<PAGE>


1.   The terms of this agreement shall have effect from  [       ]  1998
     ("Effective Date").

2.   The period of notice  required  in order for either the  Company or the
     Consultant to terminate the Consultancy  Agreement shall be one month's
     written  notice,  given at any time after the Effective Date and clause
     2.2 of the Consultancy Agreement shall be amended accordingly.

3.   The duties of Mr Pinnington  as set out in clause 3 of the  Consultancy
     Agreement shall cease to apply and the duties of Mr Pinnington shall be
     as follows:

     3.1   Mr Pinnington will act as a non-executive director of the Company;

     3.2   Mr  Pinnington  will  be  subject  to the  normal  duties  and
               responsibilities  of a director at law and will be expected to
               comply with the  principles of good  corporate  governance and
               guidelines  issued  from  time  to time  by the  Institute  of
               Directors;

     3.3   Mr Pinnington will be required to attend all board meetings of
           the Company and where relevant, other Group Companies and will
           be required to make himself  available for consultation of the
           affairs  of the  Company  and,  where  relevant,  other  Group
           Companies;

     3.4   Mr Pinnington will be required to sit on any committees on which 
           he is elected to sit by the Board;

     3.5   Mr Pinnington will be expected to bring an objectivity and
           independence of view to the discussions of the Board and
           assist the Board in  maintaining  high  standards of financial
           probity.



<PAGE>


4.   The  Consultant  shall make Mr  Pinnington  available  to carry out his
     duties at all reasonable  times and, in any event, for a minimum of the
     equivalent of 1 working day each month,  together  with any  additional
     time which may be required  for  committee  business.  The Company will
     give to the Consultant  reasonable prior notification of the time, date
     and venue of all meetings of the Board and of any  committees  to which
     Mr Pinnington is elected,  unless their  circumstances do not otherwise
     permit.

5.   The Consultant  shall procure that Mr Pinnington  attends the Company's
     premises,  when reasonably  requested to do so by the Company, in order
     properly to perform his duties.

6.   Clause 4 of the Consultancy Agreement shall cease to apply  and in place
     of the sums provided  for in such  clause  4,  the  Company  shall  pay
     to the  Consultant  a fee of (pound)20,000 plus VAT per annum in respect
     of the services of Mr  Pinnington,  which fee will accrue from day to
     day and which will be payable  monthly  in  arrears,  within 30 days after
     receipt of an  appropriate  VAT invoice from the Consultant.  The
     Consultant and Mr Pinnington  confirm,  by their signatures to this
     agreement,  that they have no claim against the  Company or any Group 
     Company arising out of clause 4 of the Consultancy Agreement and, to
     the extent that any such claim exists,  both the  Consultant and Mr
     Pinnington irrevocably waive such claim and release the Company and/or 
     any Group Company from any liability whatsoever in respect of it.

7.   Clause 5 of the  Consultancy  Agreement  shall cease to have effect and
     the Consultant and Mr Pinnington  confirm,  by their signatures to this
     agreement,  that they have no claim  against  the  Company or any Group
     Company  arising out of clause 5 of the  Consultancy  Agreement and, to
     the  extent  that any such claim  exists,  both the  Consultant  and Mr
     Pinnington  irrevocably waive such claim and release the Company and/or
     any Group Company from any liability whatsoever in respect of it.

8.   Clause 7 of the Consultancy Agreement shall continue for so long as any
     lease under which a motor car is provided to the  Consultant  and which
     is in effect as at the Effective  Date remains in full force and effect
     but so that  the  Company's  obligations  pursuant  to  clause 7 of the
     Consultancy  Agreement will cease  immediately upon termination of this
     agreement for whatever reason.

9.   Other than as varied by this agreement, all terms and conditions of the
     Consultancy Agreement shall remain in full force and effect.

10.  All terms and conditions of the Supplemental  Agreement shall remain in
     full force and effect.

11.  All terms and conditions of the Variation Agreement shall cease to have
     effect.  The Consultant and Mr Pinnington,  by their signatures to this
     agreement,  confirm that they have no claim  against the Company or any
     Group Company arising out of the Variation Agreement and, to the extent
     that any such claim  exists,  irrevocably  waive such claim and release
     the Company  and/or any Group Company from any liability  whatsoever in
     respect of it.

13.  SEVERENCE

     The various  provisions  of this  agreement  are  severable  and if any
     provision  is  held  to be  invalid  or  unenforceable  by a  court  of
     competent  jurisdiction then such invalidity or unenforceability  shall
     not affect the remaining provisions of this agreement.

14.  ASSIGNMENT AND DELEGATION

     The Consultant shall not assign this agreement to any person; nor shall
     the  Consultant  sub-contract  or  delegate  to any  person  any of the
     Consultant's obligations under it.

15.  GOVERNING LAW

15.1 This agreement shall be governed by and construed in accordance with
     English law.

15.2  The  parties  agree that the courts of  England  are to have  exclusive
      jurisdiction  to  settle  any  dispute  which  may  arise  out of or in
      connection with this agreement and submit to the  jurisdiction of those
      courts.

16.   NOTICES

16.1  Any notice or other  document to be served under this  agreement may be
      delivered or sent by first class post or telex or facsimile  process to
      the  party to be served at its  registered  office  (in the case of the
      Company marked for the attention of the Company Secretary) for the time
      being.

16.2  Unless the contrary is proved, any such notice or other document shall
      be deemed to have been served:

      (a)  if delivered, at the time of delivery;

      (b)  if  posted, at 10.00am on the second Working Day after it was
           put into the post; or

      (c)  if sent by telex or facsimile  process,  at the  expiration of
           two hours after the time of  despatch,  if  despatched  before
           3.00pm on any Working Day, and in any other case at 10.00am on
           the Working Day following the date of despatch.

16.3  In proving such service it shall be  sufficient  to prove that delivery
      was made or that the envelope  containing such notice or other document
      was properly  addressed and posted as a pre-paid  first class letter or
      that  the  telex  or  facsimile  message  was  properly  addressed  and
      despatched as the case may be.

17.   DEFINITIONS AND INTERPRETATION

17.1  In this agreement unless the context  otherwise  requires the following
      expressions shall have the following meanings:

      "Associated Company"        means:

                           (a)      a  company  which  is not a
                                    Subsidiary  of the  Company
                                    but  whose  issued   equity
                                    share  capital  (as defined
                                    in  s744  of the  Companies
                                    Act 1985) is owned as to at
                                    least 20% by the Company or
                                    one  of  its  Subsidiaries;
                                    and

                           (b)      a Subsidiary (as defined below)

         "Board"                    the board of directors for the time being
                                    of the Company;

         "Group"                    means  the  Company and  its subsidiaries
                                    and  Associated Companies for the time 
                                    being  and  "Group  Company"
                                    means any one of them;

         "Subsidiary"               means a  Subsidiary  within  the  meaning 
                                    of s736 of the Companies Act 1985;

         "Working Day"              means a day other  than a  Saturday, 
                                    Sunday or bank or other
                                    public holiday in England;

17.2   Any  reference  to a statutory  provision  shall be deemed to include a
       reference to any statutory modification or re-enactment of it.

17.3   The headings in this Agreement are for  convenience  only and shall not
       affect its construction or interpretation.

17.4   References in this  Agreement to a person  include a body corporate and
       an  incorporated  association  of persons and  references  to a company
       include any body corporate.

17.5   Where appropriate, references to the Executive include his personal
       representatives.



<PAGE>


IN WITNESS of which this agreement has been executed and delivered the day and
year first above written.



EXECUTED as a DEED by               )
HUNTINGDON LIFE SCIENCES            )
GROUP PLC acting by                 )
two directors and/or one director   )
and the secretary                   )

                                             ...............................
                                                                    Director






                                             ...............................
                                                          Director/Secretary



EXECUTED as a DEED by               )
HARFORD CONSULTANCY                 )
SERVICES LTD acting by              )
two directors and/or one director   )
and the secretary                   )

                                              ...............................
                                                                     Director



                                              ...............................
                                                           Director/Secretary




<PAGE>


EXECUTED as a DEED by               )
ROGER A PINNINGTON                  )
in the presence of:                 )


 ...............................
Signature of Witness


 ...............................
Address





 ................................
Occupation


</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-2
<SEQUENCE>12
<TEXT>



Professor John Caldwell
40 Clarence Gate Gardens
London NW1 6BA

                                                     7 August 1998



Dear John

HUNTINGDON LIFE SCIENCES GROUP PLC (the "Company")

I am  delighted  that you have  agreed  to  continue  in your  appointment  as a
non-executive  director  of the  Company  and I am now  writing to  confirm  the
arrangements which will exist between you and the Company during the continuance
of your appointment.

1.       Duties

         Although  they are not  specifically  mentioned,  you will of course be
         subject to the normal duties and  responsibilities of a director at law
         and will be expected to comply with the  principles  of good  corporate
         governance and guidelines  issued from time to time by the Institute of
         Directors.

         You will be required, in your role as non-executive director, to attend
         all board meetings of the Company and, where relevant,  other companies
         within the  Huntingdon  Group  ("Group").  You will also be required to
         make yourself  available for consultation on the affairs of the Company
         and,  where  relevant,  the Group,  and to sit on any of the  Company's
         Remuneration,  Audit and/or Nomination  committees if so elected by the
         Company's board of directors ("Board")

         As an independent  director, we will expect you to bring an objectivity
         and  independence  of view to our discussions and to the help the Board
         to provide the Company with effective  leadership,  as well as ensuring
         the continuing  effectiveness of the management team and high standards
         of financial probity.

         You will be given reasonable  prior  notification of the time, date and
         venue of all  meetings  of the  Board and  committees  to which you are
         elected, unless circumstances do not otherwise permit.

         You will  also be  expected  to  attend  the  Company's  premises  when
         relevant, but otherwise it is up to you where you carry out your duties
         from.

         We expect that this appointment will require you to devote a minimum of
         the  equivalent of one working day each month to the Group's  business,
         together with any  additional  time which may be required for committee
         business.

2.       Term

         Subject to the provisions  for early  termination  set out below,  your
         appointment  will continue unless and until terminated by either you or
         the Company not less than 3 months' written notice.

3.       Fee

         For your  services,  the Company will pay you a fee,  which will accrue
         from day to day, of  (pound)20,000  plus VAT (if applicable) per annum,
         payable monthly in arrears.  This fee will be reviewed  annually by the
         remuneration  committee of the Company. Any increase in the fee awarded
         as a result of such review will be  entirely at the  discretion  of the
         Company  and, if awarded,  will take effect from the month  immediately
         following the review date.

         In addition  to the above fee,  you will be  reimbursed  for all out of
         pocket  expenses  which  you may  incur in  providing  services  to the
         Company and for which appropriate  valid receipts are provided,  to the
         satisfaction of the Company.

         For the  avoidance  of doubt,  any fees payable to you will cease to be
         payable  immediately in the event of your ceasing to be a non-executive
         director of the Company, for whatever reason.

4.       Confidentiality

         I must ask that,  unless  previously  authorised by the Board, you will
         not at any time  during  this  appointment  nor at any time  after  its
         termination  disclose  to any  person or  persons,  or use for your own
         purposes  or for any  purposes  other than those of the  Company or the
         Group,  any confidential  information  acquired by you in the course of
         your duties and relating to, the Company or the Group.  I must also ask
         that  you  will  use  your  best  endeavours  to  prevent  unauthorised
         disclosure or publication or use of such confidential information.

         Nothing in the above paragraph is intended to prevent the disclosure by
         you of any  confidential  information  which has come  into the  public
         domain,  otherwise  than as a result of your  failure  to  comply  with
         confidentiality provisions of this agreement.



<PAGE>


5.       Conflicts of interest

         You must disclose to the Board any conflict of interest  arising out of
         your appointment.

         You will be expected to refrain,  except with the prior  consent of the
         Company,  from  accepting  appointments  to the position of director or
         consultant of any company or firm employed in the business of providing
         pre-clinical,  early clinical  and/or  non-clinical  biological  safety
         evaluation   services   to  the   pharmaceutical   and   biotechnology,
         agrochemical   and  other   chemical   industries   whilst  you  are  a
         non-executive director of the Company.

6.       Compliance

         You must comply with the model code on directors'  dealing's in respect
         of listed  securities  published  by the  London  Stock  Exchange  Ltd,
         together with any rules and  regulations  of the London Stock  Exchange
         Ltd,  the  New  York  Stock  Exchange  and the US  Securities  Exchange
         Commission.  You must  familiarise  yourself  with and comply  with all
         codes of conduct and regulatory rules that apply to the Company and the
         Group, for the time being and from time to time.

7.       Termination

         Your  appointment  is always  subject to the Articles of Association of
         the  Company.  In  addition,  the Company will be entitled to terminate
         this  appointment  by summary  notice in  writing in any  circumstances
         which  the  Company  reasonably   considers  justify  such  termination
         including, without limitation, if you:

         (i)      become incapable, in the reasonable opinion of the Company, of
                  properly performing your duties, having been given due warning
                  by the Company and having  failed to remedy the  situation  to
                  the  satisfaction  of the Company  within a reasonable  period
                  from the date of such warning;

         (ii)     have a  bankruptcy  order  made  against  you or enter  into a
                  voluntary  arrangement  within  the  meaning  of  section  253
                  Insolvency Act 1986, as amended from time to time;

         (iii)    became  prohibited  from being a company  director at any time
                  that you hold office as a Director of any Group Company; or

         (iv)     otherwise than at the request of the Board, or with its
                  express consent, resign as a Director of the Company.

         (v)      are guilty of serious  misconduct or wilful and persistent 
                  neglect of your obligations under this appointment;

         (vi)     are convicted of any arrestable  criminal  offence (other than
                  an  offence  under  road  traffic  legislation  in the  United
                  Kingdom or elsewhere for which a fine or non-custodial penalty
                  is  imposed)  in  circumstances  which  would  have a material
                  adverse effect on the Company,  the Group or their  respective
                  reputations;

         (vii)    in the reasonable opinion of the Board act in such a way as to
                  seriously  jeopardise  the business of the Company  and/or the
                  Group.

You will not be entitled to any compensation for loss of office.

You will not, at any time after the  termination of your  appointment  represent
yourself or allow  yourself to be held out or  presented  in anyway as connected
with or  interested  in the business of any Group  Company,  unless you remain a
Director of such company.

Nothing in this  paragraph 7 will prevent you from  resigning as a Director with
immediate effect if you reasonably  consider that the Board persists,  after you
have clearly  expressed your  objection in writing,  in a course of action which
you consider to be contrary to the  Company's  interests or likely to expose you
to personal liability. Any resignation in these circumstances will not give rise
to a claim by either party for termination without adequate notice.

Please confirm your agreement to the terms and conditions of this appointment by
signing the enclosed duplicate letter and returning it to me.

Yours sincerely

For and on behalf of
Huntingdon Life Sciences Group Plc


<PAGE>



                            TO BE TYPED ON DUPLICATE

I confirm my acceptance of the terms and conditions of this appointment.

Signed ....................................
           Professor John Caldwell

Date  ....................................


</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-2
<SEQUENCE>13
<TEXT>

Conditional upon completion of
the cash subscription, placing
and open offer to be made by
Huntingdon Life Sciences Group Plc
in August/September 1998

                              DATED 7th August 1998




                            HUNTINGDON LIFE SCIENCES
                                    GROUP PLC

                                     - and -

                              FHP HOLDINGS LIMITED






                      -------------------------------------

                          MANAGEMENT SERVICES AGREEMENT
                      -------------------------------------














                                 Charles Russell
                              8-10 New Fetter Lane
                                     London
                                    EC4A 1RS
                              Ref: DJSG/GXW/25407/3
                               Tel: 0171 203 5000


<PAGE>






THIS AGREEMENT is made on                     1998

BETWEEN:

(1)      HUNTINGDON  LIFE  SCIENCES  GROUP  PLC  whose  registered  office is at
         Woolley  Road,  Alconbury,  Huntingdon,  Cambridgeshire  PE17  5HS (the
         "Company"); and

(2) FHP  HOLDINGS  LIMITED of First Floor,  Euro  Canadian  Centre,  Marlborough
         Street, Nassau, Bahamas (the "Consultant").


IT IS AGREED as follows:

A.       The Consultant is engaged in business offering  consultancy services in
         relation to healthcare  ancillary services and has considerable  skill,
         knowledge and experience in that field.

B.       In reliance  upon that skill,  knowledge  and  experience,  the Company
         wishes  to  engage  the  Consultant  to  provide  the  services  of the
         Executive in relation to the Business (as such terms are defined below)
         on the terms set out in this agreement.


<PAGE>



1.       DEFINITIONS AND INTERPRETATION

(1)      In this agreement unless the context otherwise requires the following
         expressions shall have the following meanings:

         "Associated Company"        means:

                          (a)      a  company  which  is not a
                                   Subsidiary  of the  Company
                                   but  whose  issued   equity
                                   share  capital  (as defined
                                   in  s744  of the  Companies
                                   Act 1985) is owned as to at
                                   least 20% by the Company or
                                   one  of  its  Subsidiaries;
                                   and

                          (b)      a Subsidiary (as defined below)

         "Board"                the board of directors for the time being of
                                the Company;

         "Business"             the  provision  of  pre-clinical, early 
                                clinical and  non-clinical biological safety
                                evaluation services to the pharmaceutical, 
                                biotechnology, agrochemical and other chemical
                                industries;

         "Commencement Date"                      1998

         "Executive"            Andrew Baker

         "Group"                means the Company  and its  subsidiaries  and
                                Associated  Companies  for the time being and
                                "Group Company" means any one of them;

         "Intellectual          Property"  all  inventions  (whether
                                patentable or not) patents,  utility
                                models,  designs (both registered or
                                unregistered),  copyright,  database
                                right, trade and service marks (both
                                registered     and     unregistered)
                                together  with  all  rights  to  the
                                grant  of and  applications  for the
                                same and  including  all  similar or
                                analogous   rights   throughout  the
                                world and all future  rights of such
                                nature;

         "Services"             means  including but not limited to,
                                the planning and development for the
                                benefit of the Company and the Group
                                of (a) a future  business  strategy,
                                (b)    shareholder    and   business
                                relations,        (c)       business
                                opportunities,   (d)   a   financing
                                strategy,  (e) the co-ordination and
                                overview  of the  Group's  operating
                                management  team  together  with all
                                normal   duties   of  a   reasonable
                                executive  director  who is chairman
                                of a listed public limited company;

         "Subsidiary"           means a Subsidiary within the meaning of s736
                                of the Companies Act 1985;

         "Working Day"          means a day other than a Saturday, Sunday or
                                bank or other public holiday in England.

(2)      Any reference to a statutory  provision  shall be deemed to include a
         reference to any statutory  modification or re-enactment of it.

(3)      The headings in this agreement are for convenience only and shall not
         affect its construction or interpretation.

(4)      References in this  agreement to a person  include a body corporate and
         an  incorporated  association  of persons and  references  to a company
         include any body corporate.

2.       TERM

(1)      This agreement  shall commence with effect from the  Commencement  Date
         and shall continue unless and until terminated by either the Company or
         the  Consultant  giving to the other not less than 12 months  notice in
         writing, at any time, subject to earlier termination as provided below.

3.       SERVICES

(1)      With effect from the  Commencement  Date, the Consultant  shall provide
         the  Services  to the  Company  and the Group and such  other  services
         consistent  with the Services as the Company may reasonably  require of
         the Consultant from time to time.

(2)      The Consultant shall provide the Services through the Executive.

(3)      The  Consultant  shall  procure  that the  Executive  will make
         himself  available  to the  Company for a minimum of 100 (one
         hundred) days per year and at such locations and times as may be
         agreed between the Company and the Executive.

(4)      The Consultant shall procure that the Executive will:

         o        comply with all reasonable  directions from time to time given
                  to him in  connection  with the  provision of the Services and
                  shall keep the Company and the Board  regularly  informed  and
                  shall  give to the  Company  and the  Board  such  information
                  regarding the provision of the Services as the Company  and/or
                  the Board may reasonably require;

         o        comply (and procure that his spouse and minor children comply)
                  with all applicable  rules and regulations of the London Stock
                  Exchange,  the New  York  Stock  Exchange,  the US  Securities
                  Exchange  Commission and any codes of conduct of the Group for
                  the time being in force and of any other  relevant  regulatory
                  authority.

         o        not  directly  or  indirectly  during  the  currency  of  this
                  agreement  be employed by or perform  any  services  for or be
                  interested in any manner in any other business which is or may
                  be  competitive  with the Company or the Group except with the
                  consent in writing of the  Company or as holder or  beneficial
                  owner  (for   investment   purposes  only)  of  any  class  of
                  securities  in a company  if those  securities  are  listed or
                  dealt in on a  recognised  investment  exchange (as defined by
                  section  207 (1)  Finance  Services  Act  1986)  and where the
                  Consultant and the Executive  (together  with the  Executive's
                  spouse, children, parents and parents' issue) together neither
                  hold nor are  beneficially  interested  in more  than five per
                  cent of that class.

         o        keep the Company  reasonably  informed of his  whereabouts and
                  telephone  number or other means by which the Executive can be
                  contacted easily at short notice.

(5)      The  Consultant  will ensure that the  Executive  completes and will be
         responsible  for  completing  the  Services  including   returning  all
         drawings, designs, plans, documents, paper, models, materials, disks or
         any other property,  in whatever format,  belonging to the Company, the
         Group and/or clients of the Company or the Group.  The Consultant  will
         also  provide all details and complete  all  documentation  and procure
         that the Executive provides all details and completes all documentation
         which may be necessary to comply with clause 8 below.

4.       DUTIES OF THE CONSULTANT

(1)      The Consultant shall procure that the Executive will:

         o        perform  the  Services  with due  diligence  and in a safe and
                  competent manner and acquaint himself with and comply with any
                  working  practice's  rules or procedures  applicable to others
                  (whether  independent  contractors or employees of the Company
                  or of the  Group)  at any  location  where  the  Executive  is
                  performing  the  Services  (whether  or not  at the  Company's
                  premises);

         o        act in and use his best  endeavours to protect and promote the
                  interests of the Company and, where  consistent with them, the
                  Group, in accordance with the general policy and directions of
                  the Company;

         o        provide the full benefit of his knowledge, expertise and skill
                  in  connection  with the  provision of the Services and devote
                  his full time,  attention and abilities to the Company and the
                  Group at such times as the  Executive  is  required to provide
                  the Services pursuant to clause 2(3).



<PAGE>


5.       FEE

(1)      The  Company  shall  pay  a  fee  to  the   Consultant  at  a  rate  of
         (pound)150,000 per annum (plus VAT if appropriate) upon production of a
         valid invoice in accordance with clause 5(2) below (the "Fee") .

(2)      The  Consultant  shall  invoice  the  Company  on the  last day of each
         calendar  month for the Fee  incurred  in  respect of that  month.  The
         Company shall pay the invoice within 30 days of receipt.

6.       EXPENSES

(1)      The Company  shall,  in addition to payment of the fee,  reimburse  the
         Consultant,  on production  of such  vouchers or other  evidence as the
         Company  may  reasonably  require,  any  reasonable  travelling,  other
         expenses which are reasonably and properly incurred by the Executive in
         the course of providing the Services.

(2)     The amount of any expenses  shall be included by the  Consultant in
        its  invoices  submitted at the end of each month and the Company
        shall reimburse the Consultant within 30 days of receipt of the invoice.

7.       CONFIDENTIAL INFORMATION

(1)      The Consultant  undertakes to the Company that throughout the period of
         and after the  termination  of this  agreement it shall treat as secret
         and  confidential  and shall procure that the Executive  shall treat as
         secret and  confidential  any information  which may be received by the
         Consultant,  all work  performed  by the  Executive  in the  course  of
         providing the Services  which comes to the knowledge of the  Consultant
         and/or  the  Executive  in the  course  of or in  connection  with  the
         provision of the Services (the "Information").

(2)      The Consultant  also  undertakes,  and shall procure that the Executive
         shall,  not at any time nor for any  reason  disclose  or  permit to be
         disclosed to any person or  otherwise  make use of or permit to be made
         use of the  Information  other than for the  purpose of  providing  the
         Services to the Company and/or the Group.

(3)      The restrictions contained in clauses 7(1) and 7(2) above shall cease
         to apply to any Information which:

         (a)      may come into the public domain  otherwise than by breach of
                  the Consultant or the Executive of the  obligations set
                  out in this clause; or

         (b)      is disclosed  to the  Consultant  or the  Executive by a third
                  party who has not  received it either  directly or  indirectly
                  from the Company; or

         (c)      must be  disclosed  by any  applicable  law, to the extent of
                  such required disclosure.

(4)      In respect of  Information  divulged to the Consultant or the Executive
         in the course of or for the purpose of performing services on behalf of
         the Company or the Group for third parties, the Consultant shall comply
         and shall procure that the Executive shall comply with the terms of all
         undertakings  given by the  Company  to such  third  parties as if such
         undertaking were made by the Consultant and the Executive.  The Company
         shall give to the  Consultant  a copy of each such  undertaking,  which
         shall be signed by the  Company and the  Consultant  for the purpose of
         identification.

8.       INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY

(1)      In consideration of the payment of one pound ((pound)1) receipt of
         which the Consultant hereby acknowledges:-

         (a)      If the Consultant or the Executive  makes or  participates  in
                  making any invention or any design  (whether  registerable  or
                  not) or any  work  in  which  copyright  and/or  design  right
                  subsists,  in  connection  with the provision of the Services,
                  and  which  relates  to or is useful  in  connection  with the
                  Business  and/or the  business  of the Group,  the  Consultant
                  shall disclose such  invention,  design or work to the Company
                  immediately.  In the case of such an invention the  Consultant
                  shall  give the  Company  full  particulars  of the  invention
                  together with all  information,  data (in all forms and in all
                  media)  drawings  and  models  embodying  or  relating  to the
                  invention  and in the case of designs and copyright  works,  a
                  copy of all such designs and works.

         (b)      All rights in  Intellectual  Property  which may be created by
                  each of the  Consultant  and the  Executive  in the  course of
                  providing  the  Services  shall  be  the  sole  and  exclusive
                  property of the Company and the Consultant  hereby assigns and
                  shall  procure  that  the  Executive  shall  assign  all  such
                  Intellectual  Property  to the  Company by way of present  and
                  future assignment with full title guarantee.

         (c)      In the case of  registerable  rights the  Consultant  shall if
                  requested  by the Company  execute and shall  procure that the
                  Executive  executes all  documents and do all things which may
                  be necessary  or desirable  for  obtaining  the best  possible
                  registerable   protection  in  territories  specified  by  the
                  Company,  and in  respect  of all  Intellectual  Property  the
                  Consultant  shall execute and shall procure that the Executive
                  executes  all  documents  and do  all  such  things  as may be
                  necessary   or  desirable   for   perfecting   assignment   of
                  Intellectual Property under clause 8(2) above.

         (d)      The Consultant hereby  irrevocably  appoints the Company to be
                  its  attorney  in its name and on its behalf to sign,  execute
                  any  instrument  or do anything and  generally to use its name
                  for the purpose of giving to the Company  and/or the Group the
                  full benefit of the provisions of this clause and in favour of
                  any  third  party  a  certificate  in  writing  signed  by any
                  director or the  secretary of the Company that any  instrument
                  or act falls  within the  authority  conferred  by this clause
                  shall be conclusive evidence that such is the case.

9.       TERMINATION

(1)      Without  prejudice to any remedy it may have against the Consultant for
         breach  or  non-performance  of any  provision  of this  agreement  the
         Company  may  by  written  notice  to  the  Consultant  terminate  this
         agreement with immediate effect if:

         (a)      the Consultant or the Executive is in material breach of any
                  of the terms of this agreement;

         (b)      the  Consultant is in breach of clause 3(2) of this  agreement
                  being  at any time  unable  to  provide  the  services  of the
                  Executive,  provided that if the Executive is incapacitated by
                  reason of sickness or injury the Company  shall not  terminate
                  this agreement  until the Executive has been so  incapacitated
                  for a continuous period of 26 weeks;

         (c)      the   Consultant   or  the  Executive  is  guilty  of  serious
                  misconduct   or  wilful  and   persistent   neglect  of  their
                  respective obligations under this agreement;

         (d)      any order  shall be made or  effective  resolution  passed for
                  liquidation,  winding  up or  dissolution  of  the  Consultant
                  (otherwise   than  for  the  purpose  of   reconstruction   or
                  amalgamation on terms approved by the Company);

         (e)      the Executive  becomes  bankrupt or makes any  composition  or
                  enters  into any deed of  arrangement  with his  creditors  in
                  circumstances  which would have a material  adverse  effect on
                  the Company, the Group or their respective reputations;

         (f)      the Executive is convicted of any arrestable  criminal offence
                  (other than an offence under road traffic  legislation  in the
                  United Kingdom or elsewhere for which a fine or  non-custodial
                  penalty  is  imposed)  in  circumstances  which  would  have a
                  material  adverse  effect on the  Company,  the Group or their
                  respective reputations;

         (g)      the  Executive is convicted of an offence  under the Companies
                  Securities  (Insider  Dealing)  Act  1985 or under  any  other
                  present or future statutory enactment or regulations  relating
                  to insider dealings under English or New York law;

         (h)      the Executive ceases to be employed by or to have a
                  substantial interest in the Consultant;

         (i)      the Executive and/or the Consultant, in the reasonable opinion
                  of the Company,  act in such a way as to seriously  jeopardise
                  the business of the Company and/or the Group.

(2)      Upon  termination of this agreement for whatever  reason the Consultant
         shall  deliver and shall  procure  that the  Executive  delivers to the
         Company all books, documents,  papers, materials and other property (in
         whatever format)  relating to the Business,  and/or the business of the
         Group or the  clients of the  Company or the Group which may then be in
         its or the Executive's possession or under its or his power or control.

(3)      The Company may at any time and in its absolute  discretion (whether or
         not any  notice of  termination  has been  given by the  Company or the
         Consultant  under  clause 2(1) above)  terminate  this  agreement  with
         immediate effect by making a payment in lieu of notice.

10.      POST-TERMINATION RESTRICTIONS

(1)      Definitions

         In this clause:

         (a)      "Termination Date" means the date on which the employment
                  terminates;

         (b)      "Person" includes any company, firm, organisation or other
                  entity;

         (c)      "Area" means any country in the world where on the
                  Termination Date the Company was supplying services;

         (d)      "Business" means any business carried on by the Company or any
                  Group Company which relates to the provision of  pre-clinical,
                  early   clinical   and/or   non-clinical   biological   safety
                  evaluation  services to the  pharmaceutical and biotechnology,
                  agrochemical and other chemical industries;

         (e)      "Client"  means  any  Person  to whom the  Company  or a Group
                  Company supplied during the 6 months preceding the Termination
                  Date  and  with  whom  at any  time  during  such  period  the
                  Consultant was actively involved;

         (f)      "Prospective Client" means any Person with whom the Company or
                  a Group Company had negotiations or discussions  regarding the
                  possible  supply of services  during the 6 months  immediately
                  preceding  the  Termination  Date  and  with  whom at any time
                  during such period the Consultant was actively involved.

(2)      The Consultant covenants with the Company that it shall not at any time
         during the  continuance  of this  agreement or for a period of 6 months
         after the  termination  of it solicit or endeavour  to solicit  whether
         directly or  indirectly  any senior  employee of the Company or a Group
         Company  to leave  and with  whom at any time  during  the  period of 6
         months prior to such  termination the Consultant was actively  involved
         (whether in breach of the terms of their contract or not).

(3)      The Consultant covenants with the Company that it shall not for a
         period of six months from the Termination Date in the Area:

         (a)      canvass  or solicit  business  for  services  similar to those
                  being  provided  by the  Company or a Group  Company as at the
                  Termination Date from any Client or Prospective Client;

         (b)      seek to do  business  or deal with any  Client or  Prospective
                  Client in respect of services  similar to those being provided
                  by the Company or a Group Company as at the Termination  Date;
                  or

         (c)      canvass or solicit  business  from any supplier of the Company
                  or a Group  Company  with  whom the  Consultant  was  actively
                  involved during the 6 months ending on the Termination Date or
                  persuade such  supplier to cease to supply,  or to restrict or
                  vary the terms of supply to the Company or a Group  Company or
                  otherwise  interfere  with  the  relationship  between  such a
                  supplier and the Company or a Group Company.

(4)      The Consultant  shall not for a period of 6 months from the termination
         of this agreement  directly or indirectly be interested or concerned in
         any business  which is carried on in the Area and which is  competitive
         or likely to be  competitive  with the Business being carried on at the
         Termination  Date and with which the Consultant  was actively  involved
         during the 6 month period ending on the Termination Date.

         For this purpose, the Consultant is concerned in a business if:

         (a)      he carries it on as principal or agent; or

         (b)      he is a partner, director, employee,  secondee,  consultant or
                  agent in, of or to any Person who carries on the business; or

         (c)      he  has  any  direct  or  indirect   financial   interest  (as
                  shareholder  or  otherwise)  in any Person who  carries on the
                  business.

11.      NO EMPLOYMENT OR PARTNERSHIP

(1)      Nothing  contained in this agreement  shall be construed or have effect
         as constituting  any  relationship of employer and employee or partners
         or any  other  fiduciary  relationship  between  the  Company  and  the
         Consultant or between the Company and the Executive.

(2)      The Consultant shall be responsible for the payment of any remuneration
         payable to and benefits  provided for the Executive  under his contract
         of employment or otherwise including any National Insurance, income tax
         and any other form of  taxation or social  security  cost in respect of
         his  remuneration  or benefits.  The  Consultant  shall  indemnify  the
         Company  and/or  any Group  Company  in  respect  of any such  payment,
         including any interest or penalties imposed on the Company or the Group
         in respect of any payments made to the Company under this agreement.

12.      WARRANTIES

         The Consultant warrants to the Company that:

         (a)      the Consultant employs the Executive and has available to it
                  the exclusive use of his services; and

         (b)      the provision of the Services shall not:-

                  (i)  infringe the Intellectual Property of any third party; or

                  (ii) involve the use of information in breach of obligations
                       owed to or rights held by any third party; and

         (c)      the Company will not infringe the Intellectual Property of any
                  third party by the Company exercising all of the rights of the
                  owner of the Intellectual  Property assigned by the Consultant
                  to the Company under this agreement; and

         (d)      Neither  the  Consultant  nor the  Executive  is  bound by any
                  legally enforceable obligations owed to persons other than the
                  Company  which  would  prevent  either the  Consultant  or the
                  Executive from complying with the terms of this agreement.

13.      SEVERABILITY

         If  any  of  the  provisions  of  this  agreement   become  invalid  or
         unenforceable  for any reason by virtue of applicable law the remaining
         provisions  shall continue in full force and effect and the Company and
         the  Executive  hereby  undertake to use all  reasonable  endeavours to
         replace any legally invalid or unenforceable provision with a provision
         which will  promise to the  parties  (as far as  practicable)  the same
         commercial  results as well  intended or  contemplated  by the original
         provision.

14.      PREVIOUS AGREEMENTS

         With  effect  from the  Commencement  Date,  all other  agreements  and
         arrangements  between the  Consultant  or the Executive and the Company
         relating  to  the  provision  of  Services  by  the  Consultant  or the
         Executive shall cease to have effect.

15.      GRATUITIES

         The  Consultant  shall not, and shall procure that the Executive  shall
         not, directly or indirectly accept any commission,  discount,  gratuity
         or  other  benefit  from  any  person  who has or is  likely  to have a
         business relationship with the Company and/or the Group.

16.      GOVERNING LAW

(1) This agreement shall be governed by and construed in accordance with English
law.

(2)      The  parties  agree that the courts of  England  are to have  exclusive
         jurisdiction  to  settle  any  dispute  which  may  arise  out of or in
         connection with this agreement and submit to the  jurisdiction of those
         courts.

17.      NOTICES

(1)      Any notice or other  document  to be served  under this  agreement 
         may be  delivered  or sent by first class post or telex or
         facsimile process to the party to be served at its registered office
         for the time being.

(2)      Unless the contrary is proved, any such notice or other document shall
         be deemed to have been served:

         (a)      if delivered, at the time of delivery;

         (b)      if posted, at 10.00am on the second Working Day after it was
                  put into the post; or

         (c)      if sent by telex or facsimile  process,  at the  expiration of
                  two hours after the time of  despatch,  if  despatched  before
                  3.00pm on any Working Day, and in any other case at 10.00am on
                  the Working Day following the date of despatch.

(3)      In proving such service it shall be  sufficient  to prove that delivery
         was made or that the envelope  containing such notice or other document
         was properly  addressed and posted as a pre-paid  first class letter or
         that  the  telex  or  facsimile  message  was  properly  addressed  and
         despatched as the case may be.

AS WITNESS the hands of the duly authorised  representatives  of the Company and
of the Consultant on the date first mentioned on page one.


SIGNED by CHRISTOPHER  CLIFFE on behalf of HUNTINGDON     )
LIFE SCIENCES GROUP PLC                                   )
in the presence of:-                                      )
                                                          )
                                                          )





SIGNED by IAN WILLIAMSON      )
on behalf of FHP HOLDINGS     )
LIMITED in the presence of:-  )


</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-2
<SEQUENCE>14
<TEXT>

Conditional upon completion of
the cash subscription, placing
and open offer to be made by
Huntingdon Life Sciences Group Plc
in August/September 1998

                                      DATED 7th August 1998





                                    HUNTINGDON LIFE SCIENCES
                                            GROUP PLC

                                             - and -

                                          ANDREW BAKER







                              -------------------------------------

                                     EXECUTIVE'S UNDERTAKING
                              -------------------------------------












                                 Charles Russell
                              8-10 New Fetter Lane
                                     London
                                                               EC4A 1RS
                              Ref: DJSG/GXW/25407/3
                               Tel: 0171 203 5000



<PAGE>




3\050898\\GXW|LZM2001.D

THIS AGREEMENT is made on                                                  1998



<PAGE>


BETWEEN:

(1)      HUNTINGDON  LIFE  SCIENCES  GROUP  PLC  whose  registered  office is at
         Woolley  Road,  Alconbury,  Huntingdon,  Cambridgeshire,  PE17 5HS (the
         "Company"); and

(2)      ANDREW BAKER of [
                                                         ] (the "Executive")

which  agreement is entered into in  consideration  (a) of the Company  entering
into  an  agreement  with  Focused  Healthcare   Partnership  (the  "Consultancy
Agreement") today for the provision of consultancy services (the "Services") and
(b) of the payment to the Executive of one pound ((pound)1) receipt of which the
Executive hereby acknowledges.

IT IS AGREED as follows:-

1        DEFINITIONS AND INTERPRETATION

(1)      In this agreement unless the context otherwise requires the following
         expressions shall have the following meanings:

         "Associated Company"       means:

                                  (a)      a  company  which  is not a
                                           Subsidiary  of the  Company
                                           but  whose  issued   equity
                                           share  capital  (as defined
                                           in  s744  of the  Companies
                                           Act 1985) is owned as to at
                                           least 20% by the Company or
                                           one  of  its  Subsidiaries;
                                           and

                                  (b)      a Subsidiary (as defined below);

         "Board"                  means the board of directors of the Company
                                  for the time being;

         "Group"                  means the Company  and its  subsidiaries  and 
                                  Associated  Companies  for the time being and
                                  "Group Company" means any one of them;

         "Intellectual            Property"  all  inventions  (whether
                                  patentable or not) patents,  utility
                                  models,  designs (both registered or
                                  unregistered),  copyright,  database
                                  right, trade and service marks (both
                                  registered or unregistered) together
                                  with all  rights to the grant of and
                                  applications   for  the   same   and
                                  including  all similar or  analogous
                                  rights  throughout the world and all
                                  future rights of such nature;

         "Subsidiary"             means a Subsidiary within the meaning of
                                  Section 736 Companies Act 1985, as amended.

(2)      Any reference to a statutory  provision  shall be deemed to include a
         reference to any statutory  modification or re-enactment
         of it.

(3)      The headings in this agreement are for convenience only and shall not
         affect its construction or interpretation.

(4)      References in this  agreement to a person  include a body corporate and
         an  incorporated  association  of persons and  references  to a company
         include any body corporate.

(5)      Where  appropriate,  references to the Executive include his personal
         representatives.

2        CONFIDENTIALITY

         2.1      The  Executive  is aware that in the course of  providing  the
                  Services  he  will  have  access  to  and  be  entrusted  with
                  information  in respect of the business  financing,  dealings,
                  transactions,   research  methods  and  processes,   technical
                  know-how and affairs of the Company, the Group, and of clients
                  of the Company and of the Group,  all of which  information is
                  or may be confidential.

         2.2      The Executive  undertakes to the Company that  throughout  the
                  term of the Consultancy Agreement and after the termination of
                  the  Consultancy  Agreement  the  Executive  shall  treat  all
                  information  which  may be  created  by him  or  which  may be
                  received  by him in the course of  providing  the  Services in
                  confidence  and shall not  disclose  such  information  to any
                  person or use such  information  other than for the purpose of
                  providing  the Services  PROVIDED  THAT the above  obligations
                  shall not apply to information which:-

                  2.2.1             comes into the public domain  otherwise than
                                    by the breach of the Executive's obligations
                                    under this agreement; or

                  2.2.2             is  disclosed  to the  Executive  by a third
                                    party who has not  received  it  directly or
                                    indirectly  from the  Company  or any  other
                                    Group Company; or

                  2.2.3             must be disclosed by any applicable law, to
                                    the extent of such required disclosure.

         2.3      In respect of  information  received by the  Executive  in the
                  course of or for the purpose of  performing  services to third
                  parties,  the  Executive  shall  comply  with the terms of all
                  undertakings  given by the Company and/or any Group Company to
                  such third  parties as if such  undertaking  were given by the
                  Executive.  The Company  shall give to the Executive a copy of
                  each such undertaking which shall be signed by the Company and
                  the Executive for the purpose of identification.

3        INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY

         3.1      If the Executive makes or participates in making any invention
                  or any  design  (whether  registerable  or not) or any work in
                  which copyright or database right  subsists,  in the course of
                  providing the  Services,  and which relates to or is useful in
                  connection with the business of the Company, any Group Company
                  or an Associated  Company,  the Executive  shall disclose such
                  invention,  design or work to the Company immediately.  In the
                  case of such an invention the Executive shall give the Company
                  full   particulars   of  the   invention   together  with  all
                  information, data (in all forms and in all media) drawings and
                  models  embodying or relating to the invention and in the case
                  of designs and copyright works, a copy of all such designs and
                  works.

         3.2      All rights in  Intellectual  Property  which may be created by
                  the Executive in the course of providing the Services shall be
                  the  sole  and  exclusive  property  of the  Company  and  the
                  Executive hereby assigns all such Intellectual Property to the
                  Company by way of  present  and  future  assignment  with full
                  title guarantee.

         3.3      To the extent  permissible  by law, the  Executive  waives any
                  moral rights which he may have in respect of works of which he
                  is an  author  if such  works  are  created  in the  course of
                  providing the Services.

         3.4      In the case of  registerable  rights  the  Executive  shall if
                  requested  by the  Company  execute all  documents  and do all
                  things which may be necessary or desirable  for  obtaining the
                  best possible registerable protection in territories specified
                  by the Company,  and in respect of all  Intellectual  Property
                  the  Executive  shall  execute all  documents  and do all such
                  things  as  may  be  necessary  or  desirable  for  perfecting
                  assignment  of such  Intellectual  Property  under  clause 3.2
                  above.

         3.5      The Executive  hereby  irrevocably  appoints the Company to be
                  his attorney in his name to sign, execute any instrument or do
                  anything and  generally to use his/her name for the purpose of
                  giving to the Company the full  benefit of the  provisions  of
                  this clause and in favour of any third party a certificate  in
                  writing signed by any director or the secretary of the Company
                  that  any   instrument  or  act  falls  within  the  authority
                  conferred by this clause  shall be  conclusive  evidence  that
                  such is the case.

4        OBLIGATIONS OF THE EXECUTIVE

         4.1 During the continuance of the  Consultancy  Agreement the Executive
undertakes that he will:

                  4.1.1    not  without  the prior  consent  of the  Company  be
                           concerned  or  interested   in  any  business   which
                           competes  or  conflicts  with  the  business  of  the
                           Company or any Group  Company and in respect of which
                           the Services are being provided;

                  4.1.2    disclose  to the  Board  any  interest  he has  which
                           competes or  conflicts  or which might give rise to a
                           conflict of interest with the business of the Company
                           or any Group Company;

                  4.1.3    not  participate in any discussion or decision of the
                           Board which relates to any matter in respect of which
                           the   Executive   has  a  competing  or   conflicting
                           interest;

                  4.1.4    at all times conduct  himself in the best interest of
                           the Company and the Group,  including but not limited
                           to  bringing  to  the  attention  of  the  Board  any
                           opportunity which comes to his attention and which he
                           recognises might assist in the further development of
                           the business of the Company and/or the Group.

5        POST-TERMINATION RESTRICTIONS

5.1      Definitions

         In this clause:

         5.1.1    "Termination Date" means the date on which the employment
                  terminates;

         5.1.2    "Person" includes any company, firm, organisation or other
                  entity;

         5.1.3    "Area" means any country in the world where on the Termination
                  Date the Company was supplying services;

         5.1.4    "Business" means any business carried on by the Company or any
                  Group Company which relates to the provision of  pre-clinical,
                  early   clinical   and/or   non-clinical   biological   safety
                  evaluation  services to the  pharmaceutical and biotechnology,
                  agrochemical and other chemical industries;

         5.1.5    "Client"  means  any  Person  to whom the  Company  or a Group
                  Company supplied during the 6 months preceding the Termination
                  Date  and  with  whom  at any  time  during  such  period  the
                  Executive   was  actively   involved  in  the  course  of  his
                  engagement;

         5.1.6    "Prospective Client" means any Person with whom the Company or
                  a Group Company had negotiations or discussions  regarding the
                  possible  supply of services  during the 6 months  immediately
                  preceding  the  Termination  Date  and  with  whom at any time
                  during such period the Executive was actively  involved in the
                  course of his engagement.

5.2      The Executive  covenants with the Company that it shall not at any time
         during the continuance of the Consultancy  Agreement or for a period of
         6 months  after the  termination  of it solicit or endeavour to solicit
         whether  directly or indirectly any senior employee of the Company or a
         Group Company to leave and with whom at any time during the period of 6
         months prior to such  termination  the Executive was actively  involved
         (whether in breach of the terms of their contract or not).

5.3      The Executive covenants with the Company that it shall not for a period
         of six months from the Termination Date in the Area:

         (a)      canvass  or solicit  business  for  services  similar to those
                  being  provided  by the  Company or a Group  Company as at the
                  Termination Date from any Client or Prospective Client;

         (b)      seek to do  business  or deal with any  Client or  Prospective
                  Client in respect of services  similar to those being provided
                  by the Company or a Group Company as at the Termination  Date;
                  or

         (c)      canvass or solicit  business  from any supplier of the Company
                  or a Group  Company  with  whom  the  Executive  was  actively
                  involved during the 6 months ending on the Termination Date or
                  persuade such  supplier to cease to supply,  or to restrict or
                  vary the terms of supply to the Company or a Group  Company or
                  otherwise  interfere  with  the  relationship  between  such a
                  supplier and the Company or a Group Company.

5.4      The Executive  shall not for a period of 6 months from the  termination
         of this agreement  directly or indirectly be interested or concerned in
         any business  which is carried on in the Area and which is  competitive
         or likely to be  competitive  with the Business being carried on at the
         Termination  Date and with which the  Executive  was actively  involved
         during the 6 month period ending on the Termination Date.

         For this purpose, the Executive is concerned in a business if:

         (a)      he carries it on as principal or agent; or

         (b)      he is a partner, director, employee,  secondee,  consultant or
                  agent in, of or to any Person who carries on the business; or

         (c)      he  has  any  direct  or  indirect   financial   interest  (as
                  shareholder  or  otherwise)  in any Person who  carries on the
                  business.

6        WARRANTY

         6.1      The Executive warrants to the Company that:

                  6.1.1    the provision of the Services shall not:-

                           6.1.1.1  infringe the Intellectual Property of any
                           third party;

                           6.1.1.2  involve the use of  information in breach of
                           obligations owed to or rights held by any third 
                           party;

                  6.1.2    the  Company  will  not  infringe  the   Intellectual
                           Property of any third party by exercising  all of the
                           rights  of the  owner  of the  Intellectual  Property
                           assigned by the  Executive to the Company  under this
                           agreement.

                  6.1.3    The Executive is not bound by any legally enforceable
                           obligations owed to persons other than the Company or
                           the Group which  would  prevent  the  Executive  from
                           complying with the terms of this agreement.

6        SEVERABILITY

         If  any  of  the  provisions  of  this  agreement   become  invalid  or
         unenforceable  for any reason by virtue of applicable law the remaining
         provisions  shall continue in full force and effect and the Company and
         the  Executive  hereby  undertake to use all  reasonable  endeavours to
         replace any legally invalid or unenforceable provision with a provision
         which will  promise to the  parties  (as far as  practicable)  the same
         commercial  results as well  intended or  contemplated  y the  original
         provision.

7        RETURN OF PROPERTY

         7.1      The  Executive  shall  deliver to the Company on request or on
                  termination  of  the   Consultancy   Agreement  all  drawings,
                  designs, plans, documents,  paper models, materials,  disks or
                  any other  property  (in  whatever  format)  belonging  to the
                  Company, the Group and/or parties contracting with the Company
                  and/or the Group which may be acquired,  be in the  possession
                  of, or be created by the  Executive in the course of providing
                  the Services.

         7.2      The  Executive  shall,   immediately  on  termination  of  the
                  Consultancy  Agreement,  provide to the  Company  all  details
                  required to be  disclosed  pursuant to clause 3 together  with
                  all material in whatever form which  describes or embodies the
                  concepts or designs which are so disclosed.

8        LAW

         This  agreement  shall be construed in accordance  with and governed by
English law.

SIGNED by CHRISTOPHER CLIFFE        )
on behalf of HUNTINGDON LIFE        )
SCIENCES GROUP PLC                  )
in the presence of:-                )



SIGNED by ANDREW BAKER              )
on behalf of FOCUSED                )
HEALTHCARE PARTNERSHIP              )
in the presence of:-                )


SIGNED by ANDREW BAKER              )
in the presence of:-                )


</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-2
<SEQUENCE>15
<TEXT>


DATED  29 April                                                         1999







                          (1) HUNTINGDON LIFE SCIENCES
                                     LIMITED


                                     - and -


                                 (2) BRIAN CASS





                      ------------------------------------

                                SERVICE AGREEMENT
                      -------------------------------------









                                 Charles Russell
                              8-10 New Fetter Lane
                                     London
                                    EC4A 1RS

                            Telephone: 0171 203 5000
                              Ref: DJSG/GXW/25407/4


<PAGE>




                                    CONTENTS
                                                                  Page

1.       DEFINITIONS AND INTERPRETATION..........................  1

2.       TERM OF EMPLOYMENT......................................  2

3.       DUTIES..................................................  2

4.       HOURS OF WORK...........................................  3

5.       PLACE OF WORK...........................................  4

7.       REMUNERATION............................................  4

8.       PENSION SCHEME..........................................  5

9.       OTHER BENEFITS..........................................  5

10.      COMPANY CAR.............................................  7

12.      RELOCATION EXPENSES.....................................  7

13.      HOLIDAYS................................................  7

14.      ILLNESS.................................................  8

15.      RESTRICTIONS DURING EMPLOYMENT..........................  9

16.      INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY................................... 10

17.      CONFIDENTIALITY......................................... 12

18.      TERMINATION OF EMPLOYMENT............................... 13

19.      SUSPENSION.............................................. 14

20.      RESIGNATION AND RETURN OF COMPANY PROPERTY.............. 15

21.      RECONSTRUCTION OR AMALGAMATION.......................... 15

22.      CHANGE OF CONTROL....................................... 15

23.      RESTRICTIONS............................................ 16

24.      SEVERABILITY............................................ 18

25.      NOTICES................................................. 19

26.      STATUTORY INFORMATION................................... 19

27.      MISCELLANEOUS........................................... 19

SCHEDULE......................................................... 20



<PAGE>




T H I S   A G R E E M E N T  is made on 29 April,                        1999

B E T W E E N :

(1)      HUNTINGDON LIFE SCIENCES LIMITED whose registered  office is at Woolley
         Road, Alconbury,  Huntingdon,  Cambridgeshire PE17 5HS (the "Company");
         and

(2) BRIAN CASS of Timberthwaite, Sharow Cross, Nr Ripon, North Yorkshire HG4 5BQ
(the "Executive").

IT IS AGREED that the Company shall employ the Executive and the Executive shall
serve the Company as Managing  Director of the Group on the following  terms and
subject to the following conditions (the "Agreement"):

1.       DEFINITIONS AND INTERPRETATION

(1)      In this Agreement unless the context otherwise requires the following
         expressions shall have the following meanings:

         "Associated Company"        means:

                                   (a)      a  company  which  is not a
                                            Subsidiary  of the  Company
                                            but  whose  issued   equity
                                            share  capital  (as defined
                                            in  s744  of the  Companies
                                            Act 1985) is owned as to at
                                            least 20% by the Company or
                                            one  of  its  Subsidiaries;
                                            and

                                   (b)      a Subsidiary (as defined below);

         "Board"                    the board of directors for the time being
                                    of the Holding Company;

         "Commencement Date"        the date on which employment commenced, as
                                    specified in clause 2(1);

         "Group"                    means  the   Company,   the  Holding
                                    Company  and  any  Subsidiaries  and
                                    Associated  Companies of the Company
                                    and/or the  Holding  Company for the
                                    time being and "Group Company" means
                                    any one of them;

         "Holding Company"          means Huntingdon Life Sciences Group Plc;

         "Subsidiary"               means a Subsidiary within the meaning of
                                    s736 of the Companies Act 1985;

         "Working Day"              means a day other than a Saturday, Sunday
                                    or bank or other public holiday in England.

(2)      Any reference to a statutory  provision  shall be deemed to include a
         reference to any statutory  modification or re-enactment of it.

(3)      The headings in this Agreement are for convenience only and shall not
          affect its construction or interpretation.

(4)      References in this  Agreement to a person  include a body corporate and
         an  incorporated  association  of persons and  references  to a company
         include any body corporate.

(5)      Where appropriate, references to the Executive include his personal
         representatives.

2.       TERM OF EMPLOYMENT

(1)      The  employment  of the  Executive  commenced  on 9 September  1998 and
         (subject to termination as provided in clause 18 below) shall be for an
         initial fixed period of 12 months until 8 September  1999,  after which
         date it shall continue  until  terminated by either party giving to the
         other not less than 2 years'  notice in writing  such  notice not to be
         served until after the expiry of the initial 12 month fixed period.

(2)      Notwithstanding clause 2(1) above the employment of the Executive shall
         automatically terminate on the day when the Executive reaches age 65 or
         the normal  retiring age applicable to directors of the Group from time
         to time.

(3)      The  Executive  represents  and  warrants  that he is not  bound  by or
         subject to any court order, agreement, arrangement or undertaking which
         in any way restricts or prohibits him from entering into this Agreement
         or performing his duties under it.

3.       DUTIES

(1) The Executive shall during his employment under this Agreement:

         (a)      conduct the general  management  of the  business of the Group
                  and perform the duties and exercise the powers which the Board
                  may from time to time  properly  assign to him in his capacity
                  as  Managing  Director or in  connection  with the conduct and
                  management of the business of the Company, the Holding Company
                  or of the  business  of any  other  Group  Company  (including
                  serving  on the board of such  Group  Company  or on any other
                  executive body or any committee of such a company);
         (b)      assist the  Chairman of the Holding  Company with the planning
                  and  development  for the benefit of the Company,  the Holding
                  Company and the Group of (a) a future business  strategy,  (b)
                  shareholder    and    business    relations,    (c)   business
                  opportunities, (d) a financing strategy, (e) the co-ordination
                  and overview of the Group's operating management team; and

         (c)      do  all  in  his  power,   but  without   incurring   personal
                  expenditure,  to promote,  develop and protect the business of
                  the Company,  the Holding  Company and any other Group Company
                  and at all times and in all  respects  conform  to and  comply
                  with the proper and reasonable  directions and  regulations of
                  the Board.

(2)      The Executive  shall give to the Board such  information  regarding the
         affairs of the Company,  the Holding Company and, where  relevant,  the
         Group as it shall require,  and in any event, report regularly and keep
         the Board informed.

4.       HOURS OF WORK

(1)      The  Executive  shall be  required  to perform  his  duties  during the
         Company's  normal  office  hours of 8.30am to 5.00pm,  and during  such
         additional hours as may be necessary for the proper  performance of his
         duties.  No additional  pay or time-off will be permitted in respect of
         hours worked outside normal office hours.

(2)      In accordance with the Working Time Regulations  1998  ("Regulations"),
         the Executive's  average working time,  including  overtime,  shall not
         exceed 48 hours  for each  seven day  period  in any  reference  period
         subject to the  Executive's  right to opt-out of the 48 hour maximum by
         his entering into a separate agreement with the Company.

(3)      Working  time,  for the  purposes  of the  Regulations,  means any time
         during  which the  Executive  is working at the disposal of the Company
         and carrying out duties on behalf of the Company,  the Holding  Company
         and/or  the  Group,  but shall  not  include  travel to and from  work,
         travelling  time  whilst in work  including  international  travel,  or
         entertaining of clients and/or suppliers  outside of office hours, meal
         breaks or other rest breaks.


5.       PLACE OF WORK

(1)      The Executive's  normal place of work shall be the Company's offices at
         Huntingdon but the Executive  shall work in any place within the United
         Kingdom which the Board may reasonably require and he may be reasonably
         required  to travel  abroad  when  required by the Group for the proper
         performance of his duties.

(2)      If the Company  requires the Executive to work  permanently  at a place
         which  necessitates  a move from his present  home  address the Company
         will  reimburse the Executive for all expenses  directly and reasonably
         incurred as a result of the Company's  requirement  in accordance  with
         clause 12 of this Agreement.

6.       GRATUITIES AND CODES OF CONDUCT

(1)      Other than routine  hospitality  and  corporate  gifts of nominal value
         received in the ordinary  course of business,  the Executive  shall not
         directly  or  indirectly  accept any  commission,  rebate,  discount or
         gratuity  in cash or in kind  from any  person  who has or is  having a
         business relationship with any Group Company.

(2)      The Executive shall comply (and use his best endeavours to procure that
         his spouse and minor children,  step-children  or any dependents  shall
         comply) with all applicable  rules and  regulations of the London Stock
         Exchange  Limited,  the New  York  Stock  Exchange,  the US  Securities
         Exchange  Commission,  and any codes of  conduct  adopted  by the Group
         concerning  dealings in securities  for the time being in force and any
         other relevant regulatory authority.

7.       REMUNERATION

(1)      The Company shall pay to the Executive a basic annual salary at the
         rate of(pound)150,000 gross  inclusive of any  directors'  fees
         payable to him.

(2)      The  Executive's  basic annual salary shall accrue from day to day and
         be payable by equal monthly  instalments  in arrears on
         the 20th day of each month.

(3)      The  Executive's  basic annual  salary shall be reviewed  once in every
         year. The  undertaking of a salary review does not confer a contractual
         right  (whether  express or implied) to any  increase in salary and the
         Executive acknowledges that any salary increase is at the discretion of
         the Company.

(4)      Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in the Articles of Association
         of the Company,  the Holding  Company or any other Group  Company,  the
         salary in clause 7(1) above shall be inclusive of any fees to which the
         Executive  may be entitled as a director  of the  Company,  the Holding
         Company or any other Group  Company and the  Executive  shall waive his
         right to any such fee.

(5)      The Company  may, in its  absolute  descretion,  pay to the  Executive
         a bonus of such amount and at such  time(s) as may from
         time to time be determined by the Board.

8.       PENSION SCHEME

(1)      The Company shall pay contributions  (equivalent to 33 per cent. of the
         Executive's  basic  annual  salary  from time to time) to such  pension
         arrangements  as the Executive may reasonably  require whether under an
         Inland Revenue  approved  and/or  unapproved  scheme and whether funded
         and/or unfunded,  and as may be agreed between the Executive and Andrew
         Baker as Chairman of the Holding Company.

(2)      The Executive shall provide to the Company such information relating to
         his pension  arrangements  as the Company may  reasonably  require from
         time to time.

9.       OTHER BENEFITS

(1)      The Executive is entitled to  membership,  at the Company's  expense,
         of the following  schemes (each referred to below as an
         "insurance scheme"):

                  (a)      a  salary   continuance   on   long-term  disability
                           insurance  scheme  applicable  to  employees  in  the
                           Executive's category generally from time to time;

                  (b)      a life  insurance  scheme  under  which  a  lump  sum
                           benefit  shall be  payable on the  Executive's  death
                           while the Agreement  continues,  the benefit of which
                           shall be paid to such  dependants of the Executive or
                           other  beneficiary  as the  trustees  of  the  scheme
                           select at their  discretion,  after  considering  any
                           beneficiaries  identified  by  the  Executive  in any
                           expression  of his wishes  delivered  to the trustees
                           before his death. The benefit is equal to 4 times the
                           Executive's basic annual salary at his death;

                  (c)      a personal accident  insurance scheme,  applicable to
                           employees in the Executive's  category generally time
                           to time;

                  (d)      a medical  expenses  insurance  scheme providing such
                           cover for the Executive and the Executive's spouse as
                           the Company may from time to time notify to him,  but
                           so that the minimum  level of cover to be provided by
                           the Company  shall be BUPA Scale A, and the Executive
                           shall not be  responsible  for  payment of any excess
                           premium  in  respect  of such  cover  over and  above
                           standard rates.


(2)      Benefits  under any  insurance  scheme shall be subject to the rules of
         the scheme  and the terms of any  applicable  insurance  policy and are
         conditional  upon  the  Executive  complying  with and  satisfying  any
         applicable  requirements  of the  insurers.  Copies of these  rules and
         policies and particulars of the  requirements  shall be provided to the
         Executive on request.  Provided  that the Company  shall have  complied
         with and satisfied any  requirements of the insurers  applicable to it,
         (but without  prejudice to the Company's rights pursuant to clause 9(3)
         below) the Company  shall not have any  liability to pay any benefit to
         the Executive under any insurance  scheme unless it receives payment of
         the benefit from the insurer under the scheme.

(3)      Subject to sub-clause  (4) the  provision of any insurance  scheme does
         not in any way prevent  the  Company  from  lawfully  terminating  this
         Agreement in accordance  with the provisions in clause 18 even if to do
         so would deprive the Executive of membership of or cover under any such
         scheme.

(4)      The Company shall not terminate this Agreement  solely by reason of the
         Executive's incapacity if to do so would be to deprive the Executive of
         benefits  under  any  insurance  scheme  provided  pursuant  to  clause
         9(1)(a).  The Company  shall,  however,  at any time  during  which the
         Executive  qualifies  for benefits  under such  scheme,  be entitled to
         appoint a permanent  replacement for the Executive,  and require him to
         resign as a statutory  director  of any Group  Company  with  immediate
         effect,  without any liability whatsoever to the Executive.  Nothing in
         this sub-clause  shall prevent the Company from requiring the Executive
         to resign as an employee of the Company, with immediate effect, without
         any claim  against the Company or any Group  Company in respect of such
         resignation,  in the  event  that  the  Executive  is able  to  recover
         sufficiently  to resume his duties  under  this  Agreement  at any time
         after a permanent  replacement for him has been appointed in accordance
         with the provisions of this clause 9(4).

10.      COMPANY CAR

(1)      The Company  shall  provide the  Executive  with a  non-pensionable 
         car  allowance of(pound)1,000 gross per month,  together  with
         reimbursement of petrol or other fuel attributable to:

         (a)      the Executive's duties under this Agreement; and

         (b)      the Executive's private use.

11.      EXPENSES

(1)      The Company shall reimburse or procure that the Executive is reimbursed
         all  reasonable   travelling   hotel  and  other  expenses  wholly  and
         necessarily incurred by him in the performance of his duties under this
         Agreement on production of  appropriate  receipts and other evidence of
         expenditure as required by the Company.

12.      RELOCATION EXPENSES

(1)      To assist with the relocation of the  Executive's  duties,  the Company
         will pay to the Executive a disturbance allowance of (pound)2,000 gross
         per  month  for a period of up to 3 years  from the  Commencement  Date
         ("Relocation  Period"). The allowance is intended to cover (a) the cost
         incurred by the Executive in securing temporary accommodation for the 3
         year period,  (b)  travelling  expenses to and from his normal place of
         work and (c) reimbursement of expenses relating to miscellaneous  items
         in connection with such temporary relocation.

(2)      If the Executive secures permanent accommodation prior to the expiry of
         the  Relocation  Period,  the  Executive  will  be  entitled  to a  sum
         equivalent  to such  relocation  allowance in respect of any  unexpired
         part  of  the  Relocation  Period  to  cover  the  costs  of  permanent
         relocation.

(3)      The Company shall have no obligation to pay any relocation expenses
         after the expiry of the Relocation Period.

(4)      The  Executive  will be liable for payment of any income tax arising in
         respect of the  relocation  allowance  referred to in this clause 12 to
         the  extent  that the  allowance  exceeds  the Inland  Revenue's  Extra
         Statutory Concession from time to time relating to relocation expenses.

13.      HOLIDAYS

(1)      The Executive shall (in addition to the usual public and bank holidays)
         be  entitled  to 25  Working  Days  holiday  in each  holiday  year (as
         specified by the Company) to be taken at a time or times agreed between
         the Executive and the Company.

(2)      Holiday  entitlement in one year cannot be carried forward to any
         subsequent  holiday years except by prior  arrangement  with
         the Company.

(3)      In the holiday year in which employment commences or terminates holiday
         shall  accrue  on a pro  rata  basis.  If on  the  termination  of  the
         employment the Executive has exceeded his accrued  holiday  entitlement
         the excess may be deducted from any sums owing to him. If the Executive
         has accrued  holiday  owing to him the  Company  may at its  discretion
         require the Executive to take the outstanding holiday during any notice
         period or make a payment in lieu instead.

(4)      If under  clause 19 the  Executive is not required to attend the office
         during any period of notice,  he will not accrue  holiday  during  that
         period, over and above the minimum required under the Regulations.

14.      ILLNESS

(1)      The Executive shall continue to be paid during  sickness  absence (such
         payment to be inclusive of any  statutory  sick pay or social  security
         benefits to which he may be entitled)  for a total of up to 26 weeks in
         any 12 consecutive calendar months.

(2)      Thereafter the Executive shall continue to be paid salary at the
         discretion of the Company.

(3)      If the  Executive is incapable  of  performing  his duties by reason of
         injury sustained  wholly or partly as a result of negligence,  nuisance
         or breach of any  statutory  duty on the part of a third  party and the
         Executive  recovers  an  amount  by way of  compensation  for  loss  of
         earnings from that third party, he shall pay to the Company a sum equal
         to the amount  recovered  or, if less,  the  amount  paid to him by the
         Company  under clause 14(1) and/or (2) above in respect of the relevant
         period of absence as a result of that injury.

(4)      The  Company  shall be entitled  to require  the  Executive  to undergo
         examinations by a medical adviser  appointed or approved by the Company
         and the Executive  authorises  the medical  adviser and/or will provide
         such  consents as are  necessary to disclose to the Company the results
         of such examinations.

15.      RESTRICTIONS DURING EMPLOYMENT

(1)      During the  continuance  of his  employment  under this  Agreement  the
         Executive  shall unless  prevented by incapacity  devote his whole time
         and attention to the business of the Company,  the Holding  Company and
         the Group and shall not without the prior written consent of the Board:

         (a)      engage in any other  business  (other  than  charity  or other
                  unpaid  work in the nature of a hobby  which does not  detract
                  from the Executive's performance of his duties); or

         (b)      be concerned or interested in any other  business of a similar
                  nature to or competitive  with that carried on by the Company,
                  the Holding Company or any other Group Company; or

         (c)      solicit  the custom of,  canvass,  approach  or deal with,  in
                  competition with the Company, the Holding Company or any other
                  Group  Company,  any  person  (including  any  company,  firm,
                  organisation or other entity) to whom the Company, the Holding
                  Company or any other Group Company  supplies  services or with
                  whom the  Company,  the  Holding  Company  or any other  Group
                  Company  is  in  negotiations  or  discussions  regarding  the
                  possible supply of services; or

         (d)      discourage  any such  person  referred to in clause 15 (1) (c)
                  above from  conducting or continuing to conduct  business with
                  the Company, the Holding Company or any other Group Company on
                  the best terms  available to the Company,  the Holding Company
                  or any other Group Company; or

         (e)      induce or attempt to induce any director or senior employee of
                  the Company,  the Holding  Company or any other Group  Company
                  and with  whom the  Executive  has  material  dealings  in the
                  course  of his  employment,  to leave  the  employment  of the
                  Company, the Holding Company or any other Group Company

         provided that nothing in this clause shall  preclude the Executive from
         holding or being otherwise interested in any shares or other securities
         of any company which is quoted on any  recognised  investment  exchange
         (as defined by section 207(1)  Financial  Services Act 1986) so long as
         the interest of the Executive in such shares or other  securities  does
         not  extend  to more  than 5% of the  total  amount  of such  shares or
         securities.

(2)      If during his employment under this Agreement the Executive shall cease
         to be a director of the Company and/or the Holding  Company  (otherwise
         than by reason of his death,  resignation or disqualification  pursuant
         to the  articles  of  association  of the  Company  and/or the  Holding
         Company or by statute or court order or under  clause  18(2) below) his
         employment  shall continue and the terms of this Agreement  (other than
         those relating to the holding of office of director)  shall continue in
         full force and effect and the  Executive  shall have no claims  against
         the  Company or the  Holding  Company in respect of his ceasing to be a
         director.

16.      INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY

(1)      If the Executive makes, or if the Executive participates in making, any
         invention,  any design  (whether  registerable  or not), or any work in
         which copyright  and/or database right subsists and which relates to or
         is useful in connection  with the business of the Company,  the Holding
         Company or of any other Group Company the Executive  shall  disclose it
         to the Company  immediately,  whether or not it is the  property of the
         Company and:-

         (a)      in the case of an invention give the Company full  particulars
                  of the invention  together with all information,  data (in all
                  forms and in all media),  drawings  and models,  embodying  or
                  relating to the invention,  irrespective  of the nature of the
                  invention or when it was made; and

         (b)      in the case of designs or copyright works, a copy of all such
                  designs and works;

         and, in  addition,  the  Company may call for the same to be  delivered
         forthwith to an authorised representative at any time.

(2)      If an  invention  made by the  Executive is the property of the Company
         under Section 39 Patents Act 1977 the Executive  shall,  at the expense
         of the Company,  execute all  documents  and do all things which may be
         necessary or desirable for obtaining the best possible patent,  utility
         model  or  similar  protection  for  the  invention  ("Protection")  in
         territories  specified by the Company and the Executive  hereby assigns
         to the Company with full title  guarantee  all his or her rights to the
         invention  and all  applications  for  Protection  and to the  grant of
         Protection in respect of that invention and shall execute all documents
         and do all such things as may be necessary or desirable for  perfecting
         the assignment and obtaining  registration  of it in all territories in
         the name of the Company.

(3)      Notwithstanding  clause  16(2) the  Company  shall not be under any
         obligation  to apply for  Protection  in  respect  of any
         invention made by the Executive.

(4)      If any  invention is the  property of the  Executive  under  Section 39
         Patents  Act 1977 and  relates to or is useful in  connection  with the
         business or any product or service of the Company,  the Holding Company
         or of any other Group Company the  Executive  shall not grant a licence
         or execute an  assignment  in  respect of that  invention  to any other
         person  without  first  offering  to  grant a  licence  or  execute  an
         assignment  for the benefit of the Company on terms no less  favourable
         than  those  offered to the third  party,  and the  Company  shall have
         fifteen working days in which to accept or reject the offer.

(5)      If during the course of his work for the Company (whether in the course
         of normal duties or not and whether or not during normal working hours)
         the  Executive  makes,  or  participates  in the  making of any  design
         (whether  registrable  or not) or any  work in which  copyright  and/or
         database  right  subsists the Executive  hereby  assigns to the Company
         with full title  guarantee  and,  where  appropriate,  by way of future
         assignment,  all such rights for the full term thereof  throughout  the
         world,  provided that the assignment  shall not extend to those designs
         or works which are created by the Executive  wholly  outside his or her
         normal  working  hours and wholly  unconcerned  with his or her service
         under this Agreement.

(6)      In the case of designs and copyright which are registrable  anywhere in
         the world the Executive  shall, at the expense of the Company,  execute
         all  documents  and do all things which are  necessary or desirable for
         obtaining the best possible  registration  in respect of such rights in
         territories  specified  by the Company and shall  assign to the Company
         such  rights as are not already  held by the Company in all  subsequent
         registrations and applications for registration.

(7)      The  Executive  hereby  irrevocably  appoints  the  Company  to be  the
         Executive's  attorney  in his or her name and on his or her  behalf  to
         sign or execute any  document or do anything  and  generally to use the
         Executive's  name for the  purpose  of giving to the  Company  the full
         benefit of the  provisions of this clause 16 and in favour of any third
         party a certificate  in writing signed by any director or the secretary
         of the  Company  that any  document or act falls  within the  authority
         conferred by this clause shall be conclusive  evidence that that is the
         case.

(8)      The Executive waives all moral rights (whether arising under Chapter IV
         of the  Copyright  Designs and Patents  Act 1988 or  otherwise,  to the
         extent permissible under the relevant legislation in each jurisdiction)
         in works to which clause 16(5) applies.

(9)      The Executive warrants that he is not bound by any legally  enforceable
         obligations  owed to persons other than the Company which would prevent
         the Executive  from  complying with the terms of this Agreement and the
         Executive  shall not  without  proper  licence  use any  inventions  or
         information  in breach of rights owed to or held by persons  other than
         the  Company  or copy or  adapt  copyright  works or  designs  owned by
         persons other than the Company.

(10)     All the  provisions of this clause 16 shall survive  termination of the
         Executive's   employment   insofar  as  they   relate  to   inventions,
         information, designs and works in which copyright and/or database right
         subsists which were created before termination.

17.      CONFIDENTIALITY

(1)      The  Executive  shall not  (except  in the  proper  performance  of his
         duties)  during or after his employment has ended divulge to any person
         or otherwise make use of (and shall use his best  endeavours to prevent
         the  publication or disclosure of) any trade secret or secret  research
         process or any  confidential  information  concerning  the  business or
         finances of the Company, the Holding Company or any other Group Company
         or any of their dealings transactions or affairs or any trade secret or
         secret research process or any such confidential information concerning
         any of their suppliers, agents, distributors or clients.

(2)      Confidential   information  includes,   but  is  not  limited  to:  any
         information of a secret,  confidential or private nature,  in any form,
         concerning the business,  accounts,  finances, customer lists, research
         projects,  pricing and/or discount  policy,  future business  strategy,
         marketing,   tenders,  price  sensitive   information,   employees  and
         officers,   formulae,    processors,   working   methods,   inventions,
         intellectual  property and other plans and strategy of the Company, the
         Holding  Company  and any other  Group  Company  or any of its or their
         respective clients.

(3)      The restrictions in clauses 17 (1) and 17 (2) shall not apply to
         information which:

         (i)      comes into the public domain otherwise than by a breach by
                  the Executive of his obligations under this Agreement; or

         (ii)     is  disclosed  to the  Executive  by a third party who has not
                  received  it directly  or  indirectly  from the Company or any
                  Group Company; or

         (iii)    must be disclosed by any applicable law or the requirements of
                  a  relevant  regulatory  authority,  to  the  extent  of  such
                  required disclosure.

18.      TERMINATION OF EMPLOYMENT

(1)      The Company may at any time and in its absolute  discretion (whether or
         not any  notice of  termination  has been  given by the  Company or the
         Executive  under  clause  2(1)  above)  terminate  the  Agreement  with
         immediate effect and make a payment in lieu of notice.

(2)      The employment of the Executive may be terminated by the Company
         without notice or payment in lieu of notice if:

         (a)      the Executive is guilty of any serious misconduct or any other
                  conduct which affects or is likely to affect prejudicially the
                  interests of the Company,  or any Group Company to which he is
                  required to render services under this Agreement; or

         (b)      the Executive fails or neglects  efficiently and diligently to
                  discharge  his duties in any  material  respect or commits any
                  repeated  breach or  non-observance  of any of the  provisions
                  contained  in this  Agreement  which is either not  capable of
                  remedy  or is not  remedied  after  notice  from  the  Company
                  specifying the breach and requiring its remedy; or

         (c)      a period of 3 months has elapsed from the  Executive  having a
                  bankruptcy  order  made  against  him,  or  entering  into any
                  voluntary  arrangement  within  the  meaning  of  section  253
                  Insolvency  Act 1986  ("Insolvency")  in  circumstances  which
                  would have a material adverse effect on the Company, the Group
                  or their respective  reputations and the Executive has, within
                  that period, failed to remedy the Insolvency; or

         (d)      the Executive is convicted of any arrestable  criminal offence
                  (other than an offence under road traffic  legislation  in the
                  United Kingdom or elsewhere for which a fine or  non-custodial
                  penalty  is  imposed)  in  circumstances  which  would  have a
                  material  adverse  effect on the  Company,  the Group or their
                  respective reputations; or

         (e)      the Executive is  disqualified  from holding office in another
                  company  by  reason  of  an  order  of a  court  of  competent
                  jurisdiction; or

         (f)      the  Executive is convicted of an offence  under the Companies
                  Securities  (Insider  Dealing)  Act  1985 or under  any  other
                  present or future statutory enactment or regulations  relating
                  to  insider  dealings  under  English or New York law or is in
                  breach of the model  codes on  directors'  dealings  in listed
                  securities,  securities  dealt on the  Alternative  Investment
                  Market or the OFEX  trading  facility  published by the London
                  Stock Exchange Limited; or

         (g)      otherwise than:

                  i)   at the request of the  Company  including,  but not
                       limited to, any request  pursuant to clause 9(4) of this
                       Agreement; or

                  ii)  in  circumstances which a reasonable director, properly
                       advised, would regard as requiring his resignation

                  the Executive ceases to be a director of the Company and/or
                  the Holding Company.

(3)      Subject  to the  provisions  of  clause  9(4)  of this  Agreement,  the
         employment  of the  Executive  may be  terminated by the Company on not
         less than three  months  notice (or with  immediate  effect by making a
         payment  in lieu) if the  Executive  shall  become of  unsound  mind or
         become a patient under the Mental Health Act 1983.

19.      SUSPENSION

(1)      The Company may suspend the  Executive at any time on full pay to allow
         the Company to investigate  any complaint made against the Executive in
         relation to his employment  with the Company  provided that the fact of
         the  suspension  will only be  disclosed to employees of the Company or
         any Group Company who are involved in the investigation  and/or to whom
         such  disclosure  may, in the  reasonable  opinion of the  Company,  be
         necessary for genuine operational reasons.

(2)      During  any  period  of  notice of  termination  (whether  given by the
         Company or the  Executive)  the Company shall be under no obligation to
         assign any duties to the  Executive  or to provide any work for him and
         shall be entitled to exclude him from its premises,  provided that this
         shall not  affect the  Executive's  entitlement  to receive  his normal
         salary and other  contractual  benefits  other than that the  Executive
         will cease to accrue  holiday  during any such  period,  subject to any
         entitlement under the Regulations.  The Executive will, during any such
         period of  suspension,  continue to be bound by his  obligations  under
         this Agreement, so far as is consistent with such suspension.

20.      RESIGNATION AND RETURN OF COMPANY PROPERTY

(1)      Upon the  termination  by whatever  means of this  Agreement  the 
         Executive shall:

         (a)      immediately  resign  from  his  office  as a  director  of the
                  Company  and the Holding  Company and from such other  offices
                  held  by  him  in  any  Group   Company   without   claim  for
                  compensation; and

         (b)      immediately  deliver to the  Company all credit  cards,  keys,
                  computer  media and other  property  in whatever  form,  of or
                  relating  to the  business  of  the  Company  or of any  Group
                  Company,  which may be in his possession or under his power or
                  control; and

         (c)      immediately  deliver to the Company all details  which must be
                  provided  under clause 14 above  together with all material in
                  whatever  form which  describes  or embodies  the  concepts or
                  designs which are so disclosed.

(2)      If the  Executive  fails to comply  with  clause  20(1) the  Company is
         hereby irrevocably authorised to appoint some person in his name and on
         his behalf to sign and complete any documents or do any thing necessary
         to give effect to this clause.

(3)      The Executive  shall not without the consent of the Company at any time
         after the termination of this Agreement  represent  himself still to be
         connected with the Company or any Group Company.

21.      RECONSTRUCTION OR AMALGAMATION

         If the  employment of the Executive  under this Agreement is terminated
         by  reason  of the  liquidation  of the  Company  for  the  purpose  of
         reconstruction or amalgamation and the Executive is offered  employment
         with any concern or undertaking  resulting from the  reconstruction  or
         amalgamation on terms and conditions not less favourable than the terms
         of this Agreement,  which the Executive  unreasonably refuses, then the
         Executive  shall have no claim against the Company or any Group Company
         in respect of the termination of his employment under this Agreement.

22.      CHANGE OF CONTROL

(1)      If there is a Change of Control of the Holding Company,  and within the
         6 months  following  the Change of Control the  Executive is dismissed,
         otherwise than under clause 18, or is  constructively  dismissed by the
         Company, or voluntarily resigns, the Company shall pay to the Executive
         and the Executive agrees to accept,  as liquidated  damages in full and
         final   settlement  of  all  claims  arising  from  such  dismissal  or
         resignation, the sum which is equal to:

         (a)      2 years' gross basic salary as at the date of termination; and

         (b)      an amount  equal to twice the annual  average of  bonuses,  if
                  any, received by the Executive pursuant to clause 7(5) of this
                  Agreement  during  the  two  financial  years  of the  Company
                  immediately preceding the Change of Control.

(2)      This  payment  will be subject to  deduction of income tax and National
         Insurance  contributions  as  appropriate,  without any  reduction  for
         mitigation or early payment. The Company shall make such payment within
         seven days of the date of such termination.

(3)      The  parties  agree that the payment  referred to in clause  22(1) is a
         genuine  pre-estimate  of the  loss  which  would  be  incurred  by the
         Executive on termination of his employment in circumstances where there
         has been a Change of Control.

(4)      "Change of Control" for the purposes of this clause 22 means the direct
         or  indirect  beneficial  ownership  of more than 30 per  cent.  of the
         Holding  Company's  issued voting share  capital being  acquired by any
         single person or group of persons acting in concert.

23.      RESTRICTIONS

(1)      Definitions

         In this clause:

         (a)      "Termination Date" means the date on which the employment
                  terminates;

         (b)      "Person" includes any company, firm, organisation or other
                  entity;

         (c)      "Area" means any country in the world where on the Termination
                  Date the Company,  the Holding  Company and/or any other Group
                  Company was supplying services;

         (d)      "Business" means any business  carried on by the Company,  the
                  Holding  Company  or any Group  Company  which  relates to the
                  provision of pre-clinical,  early clinical and/or non-clinical
                  biological  safety evaluation  services to the  pharmaceutical
                  and biotechnology, agrochemical and other chemical industries;

         (b)      "Client"  means any Person to whom the  Company,  the  Holding
                  Company or any Group Company  supplied  services  during the 6
                  months  preceding  the  Termination  Date and with whom at any
                  time during such period the Executive was actively involved in
                  the  course  of his  employment  within  the 12  month  period
                  following the  Commencement  Date but excluding any Person who
                  was a client of the Executive prior to the  Commencement  Date
                  and was introduced by the Executive to the Company;

         (d)      "Prospective  Client"  means any Person with whom the Company,
                  the Holding  Company or any Group Company had  negotiations or
                  discussions  regarding the possible  supply of services during
                  the 6 months  immediately  preceding the Termination  Date and
                  with whom at any time  during such  period the  Executive  was
                  actively   involved  in  the  course  of  his  employment  but
                  excluding any Person who was a client of the  Executive  prior
                  to the  Commencement  Date and was introduced by the Executive
                  to the Company.

(2)      The  Executive  covenants  with the  Company  and as  trustee  for 
         each  Group  Company  that in the  event of the  Executive
         terminating his employment:

         (1)      Non-solicitation

                  the Executive shall not for a period  of 6 months  from the
                  Termination Date in the Area directly or indirectly:

                  (a)      canvass or solicit  business for services  similar to
                           those  being  provided  by the  Company,  the Holding
                           Company or any Group  Company  as at the  Termination
                           Date from any Client or Prospective Client;

                  (b)      seek  to do  business  or deal  with  any  Client  or
                           Prospective  Client in respect of services similar to
                           those  being  provided  by the  Company,  the Holding
                           Company or any Group  Company  as at the  Termination
                           Date; or

                  (c)      canvass or solicit  business from any supplier of the
                           Company,  the  Holding  Company or any Group  Company
                           with whom the Executive was actively  involved during
                           the 6  months  ending  on  the  Termination  Date  or
                           persuade  such  supplier  to cease to  supply,  or to
                           restrict or vary the terms of supply to the  Company,
                           the Holding Company or any Group Company or otherwise
                           interfere  with  the  relationship   between  such  a
                           supplier and the Company,  the Holding Company or any
                           Group Company.

         (2)      Non-poaching

                  the  Executive  shall not for a period  of 6 months  after the
                  Termination  Date directly or indirectly  induce or attempt to
                  induce any senior employee of the Company, the Holding Company
                  or any Group  Company who is engaged in any business  activity
                  carried on by the  Company,  the Holding  Company or any Group
                  Company at the  Termination  Date and with whom the  Executive
                  during  the 6  months  ending  on  the  Termination  Date  had
                  material  dealings in the course of his  employment,  to leave
                  the  employment  of the  Company,  the Holding  Company or any
                  Group  Company  (whether  or not this  would  be a  breach  of
                  contract by that employee).

(3)      The  restrictions in this clause 23 are considered by the parties to be
         reasonable and the validity of each sub-clause shall not be affected if
         any of the others is invalid.  If any of the  restrictions  is void but
         would  be valid  if some  part of the  restriction  were  deleted,  the
         restriction  in question shall apply with such  modification  as may be
         necessary to make it valid.

(4)      The  Executive  acknowledges  that the  provisions  of this clause are
         no more  extensive  than is  reasonable  to protect the
         Company or the Group.

(5)      If the Executive is suspended  from work under the provisions of clause
         19, the Company may, at its sole  discretion,  agree that the period of
         time  during  which  the  restrictions   contained  in  clause  23  are
         enforceable  starts to run from the date of the suspension and not from
         the Termination Date.

24.      SEVERABILITY

         While the provisions of this Agreement are considered by the parties to
         be reasonable in all the  circumstances,  it is agreed that if any part
         or parts of it is or are  adjudged to go beyond what is  reasonable  in
         all the circumstances  but would be adjudged  reasonable if any part or
         parts of it were deleted,  restricted or limited,  the relevant part or
         parts shall apply with such  deletions,  restrictions or limitations as
         may be required in the particular case.

25.      NOTICES

(1)      Any notice required or permitted to be given under this Agreement shall
         be given in writing  delivered  personally  or sent by first class post
         pre-paid  recorded  delivery  (air mail if overseas) or by facsimile to
         the party due to receive  such  notice at, in the case of the  Company,
         its  registered  office from time to time (and marked for the attention
         of the  Company  Secretary)  and,  in the  case of the  Executive,  his
         address as set out in this  Agreement  (or such  address as he may have
         notified to the Company).

(2)      Any notice  delivered  personally  shall be deemed to be received  when
         delivered to the address provided in this Agreement and any notice sent
         by pre-paid  recorded  delivery post shall be deemed (in the absence of
         evidence of earlier receipt) to be received 2 days after posting and in
         proving the time of despatch  it shall be  sufficient  to show that the
         envelope  containing  such notice was properly  addressed,  stamped and
         posted.  A notice  sent by  facsimile  shall  be  deemed  to have  been
         received on receipt by the sender of confirmation  in the  transmission
         report that the facsimile had been sent.

26.      STATUTORY INFORMATION

(1)      The Schedule to this Agreement sets out information required to be
         given to the Executive by the Employment Rights Act 1996.

27.      MISCELLANEOUS

(1)      This Agreement is governed by and shall be construed in accordance
         with the laws of England.

(2)      The parties to this Agreement submit to the non-exclusive jurisdiction
         of the English courts.

(3)      This Agreement  contains the entire  understanding  between the parties
         and  supersedes  all  previous  agreements  and  arrangements  (if any)
         relating to the  employment  of the Executive by the Group (which shall
         be deemed to have been terminated by mutual consent).

(4)      The Executive  authorises  the Company to deduct from any  remuneration
         payable to the Executive  under this Agreement any sums due from him to
         the Company or any Group  Company  including  the cost of repairing any
         damage  to  Company  or  any  Group  Company  property  caused  by  the
         Executive.

THIS  AGREEMENT  has been executed as a DEED and is intended to be and is hereby
delivered on the date on page 1.


<PAGE>


                                    SCHEDULE

                    STATEMENT OF PARTICULARS PURSUANT TO THE
                           EMPLOYMENT RIGHTS ACT 1996

1.     The Executive's period of continued employment commenced on 9 September
       1998. A period of employment with a previous employer does not count as
       part of the Executive's continuous employment with the Company.

2.     A contracting-out certificate is in force in respect of this employment.

3.     There is no formal  disciplinary or grievance  procedure  applicable to
       this position.  Any grievance which the Executive wishes to exercise or
       any disciplinary  action taken by the Company will be dealt with by the
       Chairman of the Holding Company.  If the Executive is dissatisfied with
       any  decision he can within 5 working days of that  decision  appeal to
       the Board whose decision shall be final and binding.  For the avoidance
       of doubt any disciplinary or grievance  procedure does not form part of
       the service agreement.

4.     The Executive is under no obligation to work overseas for periods
       exceeding 1 month.

5.     The Company is not a party to any collective agreement which  affects
       the Executive's employment.

Executed as a Deed by
HUNTINGDON LIFE SCIENCES
LIMITED                                     ................................
                                                                    Director
                                            ................................
                                                  Director/Company Secretary
Signed as a Deed by
BRIAN CASS
in the presence of:                        .................................

                                           .................................
                                                        Signature of Witness

                                           .................................
                                                             Name of Witness

                                            .................................
                                                                     Address
                                               .............................
                                                                  Occupation


</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-2
<SEQUENCE>16
<TEXT>


DATED     29 April                                                1999







                          (1) HUNTINGDON LIFE SCIENCES
                                     LIMITED


                                     - and -


                          (2) JULIAN TORQUIL GRIFFITHS





                      ------------------------------------

                                SERVICE AGREEMENT
                      -------------------------------------









                                 Charles Russell
                              8-10 New Fetter Lane
                                     London
                                    EC4A 1RS

                            Telephone: 0171 203 5000
                              Ref: DJSG/GXW/37971/1


<PAGE>




                                    CONTENTS
                                                                     Page

1.       DEFINITIONS AND INTERPRETATION...............................  1

2.       TERM OF EMPLOYMENT...........................................  2

3.       DUTIES.......................................................  2

4.       PLACE OF WORK AND RELOCATION.................................  3

5.       GRATUITIES AND CODES OF CONDUCT..............................  4

6.       REMUNERATION.................................................  4

7.       PENSION SCHEME...............................................  5

8.       OTHER BENEFITS...............................................  6

9.       COMPANY CAR..................................................  7

10.      EXPENSES.....................................................  7

11.      HOLIDAYS.....................................................  7

12.      ILLNESS......................................................  8

13.      RESTRICTIONS DURING EMPLOYMENT...............................  8

14.      INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY........................................ 10

15.      CONFIDENTIALITY.............................................. 12

16.      TERMINATION OF EMPLOYMENT.................................... 13

17.      SUSPENSION................................................... 14

18.      RESIGNATION AND RETURN OF COMPANY PROPERTY................... 14

19.      RECONSTRUCTION OR AMALGAMATION............................... 15

20.      RESTRICTIONS................................................. 15

21.      SEVERABILITY................................................. 18

22.      NOTICES...................................................... 18

23.      STATUTORY INFORMATION........................................ 18

24.      MISCELLANEOUS................................................ 19

SCHEDULE.............................................................. 20



<PAGE>




T H I S   A G R E E M E N T  is made on 29 April 1999

B E T W E E N :

(1)      HUNTINGDON LIFE SCIENCES LIMITED whose registered  office is at Woolley
         Road, Alconbury,  Huntingdon,  Cambridgeshire PE17 5HS (the "Company");
         and

(2)      JULIAN TORQUIL GRIFFITHS of Cobb Hill House, Tang Road, High Birstwith,
         North Yorkshire, HG3 2JR (the "Executive").

IT IS AGREED that the Company shall employ the Executive and the Executive shall
serve the Company as Finance  Director of the Group on the  following  terms and
subject to the following conditions (the "Agreement"):

1.       DEFINITIONS AND INTERPRETATION

(1)      In this Agreement unless the context  otherwise  requires the following
         expressions shall have the following meanings:

         "Associated Company"        means:

                                    (a)      a  company  which  is not a
                                             Subsidiary  of the  Company
                                             but  whose  issued   equity
                                             share  capital  (as defined
                                             in  s744  of the  Companies
                                             Act 1985) is owned as to at
                                             least 20% by the Company or
                                             one  of  its  Subsidiaries;
                                             and

                                    (b)      a Subsidiary (as defined below)

         "Board"                    the board of  directors  for the time being
                                    of the  Holding Company;

         "Group"                            means  the   Company,   the  Holding
                                            Company  and  any  Subsidiaries  and
                                            Associated  Companies of the Company
                                            and/or the  Holding  Company for the
                                            time being and "Group Company" means
                                            any one of them;

         "Holding Company"          means Huntingdon Life Sciences Group Plc;

         "Subsidiary"               means  a  Subsidiary  within  the  meaning
                                    of  s736  of the Companies Act 1985;

         "Working Day"              means a day other than a  Saturday,  Sunday
                                    or bank or other public holiday in England.

(2)      Any  reference  to a statutory  provision  shall be deemed to include a
         reference to any statutory modification or re-enactment of it.

(3)      The headings in this Agreement are for  convenience  only and shall not
         affect its construction or interpretation.

(4)      References in this  Agreement to a person  include a body corporate and
         an  incorporated  association  of persons and  references  to a company
         include any body corporate.

(5)      Where appropriate, references  to  the  Executive include his personal
         representatives.

2.       TERM OF EMPLOYMENT

(1)      The  employment  of the  Executive  commenced  on 1  February  1999 and
         (subject to termination as provided in clause 16 below) shall be for an
         indefinite  period terminable by the Executive by giving to the Company
         6  months'  notice  in  writing  and by the  Company  by  giving to the
         Executive 12 months' notice in writing.

(2)      Notwithstanding clause 2(1) above the employment of the Executive shall
         automatically terminate on the day when the Executive reaches age 65 or
         the normal  retiring age applicable to directors of the Group from time
         to time.

(3)      The  Executive  represents  and  warrants  that he is not  bound  by or
         subject to any court order, agreement, arrangement or undertaking which
         in any way restricts or prohibits him from entering into this Agreement
         or performing his duties under it.

3.       DUTIES

(1)      The Executive shall during his employment under this Agreement:

         (a)    perform the duties and exercise the powers which the Board may
                from time to time  properly  assign to him in his  capacity as
                Finance  Director  of the  Group  or in  connection  with  the
                conduct and  management  of the business of the  Company,  the
                Holding  Company or the  business of any other  Group  Company
                (including  serving on the board of such  Group  Company or on
                any other  executive body or any committee of such a company);
                and

         (b)    do all in his  power  to  promote,  develop  and  protect  the
                business of the  Company,  the  Holding  Company and any other
                Group Company and at all times and in all respects  conform to
                and  comply  with the  proper and  reasonable  directions  and
                regulations of the Board.

(2)      The Executive  shall give to the Board such  information  regarding the
         affairs of the Company and the Holding Company and, where relevant, the
         Group as it shall require,  and in any event, report regularly and keep
         the Board informed.

(3)      The  Executive  shall be  required  to perform  his  duties  during the
         Company's  normal  office  hours of 8.30am to 5.00pm,  and during  such
         additional hours as may be necessary for the proper  performance of his
         duties.  No additional  pay or time-off will be permitted in respect of
         hours worked outside normal office hours.

(4)      In accordance with the Working Time Regulations  1998  ("Regulations"),
         the Executive's  average working time,  including  overtime,  shall not
         exceed 48 hours  for each  seven day  period  in any  reference  period
         subject to the  Executive's  right to opt-out of the 48 hour maximum by
         his entering into a separate agreement with the Company.

(5)      Working  time,  for the  purposes  of the  Regulations,  means any time
         during  which the  Executive  is working at the disposal of the Company
         and carrying out duties on behalf of the Company,  the Holding  Company
         and/or Group, but shall not include travel to and from work, travelling
         time whilst in work including  international travel, or entertaining of
         clients and/or suppliers  outside of office hours, meal breaks or other
         rest breaks.

4.       PLACE OF WORK AND RELOCATION

(1)      The Executive's  normal place of work shall be the Company's offices at
         Huntingdon but the Executive  shall work in any place within the United
         Kingdom  which the Board may  require  and he may be required to travel
         abroad when required by the Company for the proper  performance  of his
         duties.

(2)      If the Company  requires the Executive to work  permanently  at a place
         which  necessitates  a move from his present  home  address the Company
         will reimburse the Executive for such removal and  relocation  expenses
         as are directly and  reasonably  incurred as a result of the  Company's
         requirement up to a maximum of (pound)10,000 gross.

(3)      If the  Executive  gives notice to terminate his  employment  within 12
         months of any  relocation  for which the  Company  has  reimbursed  the
         Executive  his  expenses  in  accordance  with  clause  4 (2)  of  this
         Agreement,  the  Company  may  request  repayment  of up to  75% of the
         relocation expenses reimbursed.

(4)      If the  Executive  gives notice to terminate his  employment  within 24
         months of any  relocation  for which the  Company  has  reimbursed  the
         Executive  his  expenses  in  accordance  with  clause  4 (2)  of  this
         Agreement,  the  Company  may  request  repayment  of up to  50% of the
         relocation expenses reimbursed.

(5)      The  Executive,  by his  signature to this  Agreement,  authorises  the
         Company to deduct any  relocation  expenses to be repaid  under  clause
         4(3) or 4(4)  from any  sums due to the  Executive  on  termination  of
         employment.  Should such sum be  insufficient  the Executive  agrees to
         repay the relocation expenses as a debt owing to the Company.

(6)      The  Executive  will be liable for payment of any income tax arising in
         respect of the  relocation  expenses,  referred to in this clause 4, to
         the extent that the amount exceeds the Inland  Revenue Extra  Statutory
         Concession from time to time relating to relocation expenses.

5.       GRATUITIES AND CODES OF CONDUCT

(1)      Other than routine  hospitality  and  corporate  gifts of nominal value
         received in the ordinary  course of business,  the Executive  shall not
         directly  or  indirectly  accept any  commission,  rebate,  discount or
         gratuity  in cash or in kind  from any  person  who has or is  having a
         business relationship with any Group Company.

(2)      The  Executive  shall  comply  (and  procure  that his spouse and minor
         children or  step-children  or any  dependents  shall  comply) with all
         applicable rules and regulations of the London Stock Exchange,  the New
         York Stock Exchange,  the US Securities  Exchange  Commission,  and any
         codes of conduct adopted by the Group concerning dealings in securities
         for  the  time  being  in  force  and  any  other  relevant  regulatory
         authority.

6.       REMUNERATION

(1)      The Company shall pay to the Executive a salary at the rate of
         (pound)80,000 gross per year.

(2)      The  Executive's  salary shall accrue from day to day and be payable by
         equal monthly instalments in arrears on the 20th day of each month.

(3)      The  Executive's  salary  shall be  reviewed  once in every year of the
         term. The  undertaking of a salary review does not confer a contractual
         right  (whether  express or implied) to any  increase in salary and the
         Executive acknowledges that any salary increase is at the discretion of
         the Company.

(4)      Notwithstanding  anything to the contrary in the Company's  Articles of
         Association the salary in 6 (1) above shall be inclusive of any fees to
         which the Executive may be entitled as a director of the Company or any
         Group Company and the Executive shall waive his right to any such fee.

(5)      The Company may, in its  absolute  discretion,  pay to the  Executive a
         bonus of such amount  payable at such  time(s) as may from time to time
         be determined by the Board.

(6)      The Executive  shall subject to the rules of the scheme,  as amended or
         varied from time to time at the Group's  discretion and at the absolute
         discretion of the Holding Company's Remuneration Committee, be entitled
         to participate in the Huntingdon Life Sciences Group  Unapproved  Share
         Option  Scheme for the time being in force and in  accordance  with the
         scheme rules.  The Executive shall not be entitled to any  compensation
         for the loss of this right or loss of any benefit  granted  pursuant to
         the scheme on termination of this Agreement.

7.       PENSION SCHEME

(1)      It is the  Company's  intention  to  establish a final  salary  pension
         scheme in which the Executive will be entitled to participate whilst an
         employee of the Company.

(2)      It is the Company's intention, if such a scheme is established,  to pay
         such  contributions to such scheme,  during the term of this Agreement,
         as would  provide  retirement  benefits for the  Executive at age 60 of
         1/60th  of  final  pensionable  salary  for each  year or part  year of
         service with the Company,  subject to the other terms and conditions of
         such scheme.

(3)      In the event of such a scheme not being  established  within six months
         of the  Executive  starting  employment  with the Company,  the Company
         agrees,  whilst the  Executive  remains an employee of the Company,  to
         contribute at a rate of 20% of the Executive's basic salary, as set out
         in clause 6(1), to a personal pension scheme selected by the Executive.

(4)      Contributions  under  clauses  7(2) or 7(3)  will be  backdated  to the
         commencement of the Executive's employment.
8.       OTHER BENEFITS

(1)      The Executive is entitled to membership of the following  schemes (each
         referred to below as an "insurance scheme"):

          (a)    a  salary   continuance   on   long-term   disability
                 insurance  scheme  applicable  to  employees  in  the
                 Executive's  category generally  providing such cover
                 for the  Executive  as the  Company  may from time to
                 time notify to him;

          (b)    a life  insurance  scheme  under  which a lump sum  benefit
                 shall be payable on the Executive's death while the Agreement
                 continues;  the benefit of which shall be paid to such 
                 dependants  of the  Executive or other  beneficiary  as the
                 trustees of the scheme  select at their discretion,  after
                 considering any  beneficiaries  identified by the
                 Executive in any  expression of his wishes  delivered to the
                 trustees before his  death.  The  benefit is equal to 4 times
                 the  Executive's basic  annual  salary at his death but basic
                 annual  salary for this purpose shall not exceed the allowable
                 maximum earnings cap;

          (c)    a personal  accident  insurance scheme  applicable to
                 employees  in  the  Executive's   category  generally
                 providing such cover for the Executive as the Company
                 may from time to time notify to him;

          (d)    a medical  expenses  insurance  scheme providing such
                 cover for the  Executive and the  Executive's  spouse
                 and children under the age of 18 years as the Company
                 may from time to time notify to him.

(2)      Benefits  under any  insurance  scheme shall be subject to the rules of
         the scheme(s) and the terms of any applicable  insurance policy and are
         conditional  upon  the  Executive  complying  with and  satisfying  any
         applicable  requirements  of the  insurers.  Copies of these  rules and
         policies and particulars of the  requirements  shall be provided to the
         Executive on request.  Provided  that the Company  shall have  complied
         with and satisfied any  requirements of the insurers  applicable to it,
         (but without  prejudice to the Company's rights pursuant to clause 8(4)
         below) the Company  shall not have any  liability to pay any benefit to
         the Executive under any insurance  scheme unless it receives payment of
         the benefit from the insurer under the scheme.

(3)      Any  insurance  scheme  which is  provided  for the  Executive  is also
         subject to the Company's  right to alter the cover provided or any term
         of the scheme or to cease to provide  (without  replacement) the scheme
         at any time if in the  reasonable  opinion  of the  Board  the state of
         health of the  Executive  is or becomes such that the Company is unable
         to  insure  the  benefits  under  the  scheme  at the  normal  premiums
         applicable to a person of the Executive's age.

(4)      The provision of any  insurance  scheme does not in any way prevent the
         Company from lawfully terminating this Agreement in accordance with the
         provisions in clause 16 even if to do so would deprive the Executive of
         membership of or cover under any such scheme.

9.       COMPANY CAR

(1)      The Company  shall  provide the Executive  with a  non-pensionable  car
         allowance of (pound)750.00 gross per month, together with reimbursement
         of petrol or other fuel attributable to:

         (a)      the Executive's duties under this Agreement and;

         (b)      the Executive's private use.

10.      EXPENSES

(1)      The Company shall reimburse or procure that the Executive is reimbursed
         all  reasonable   travelling   hotel  and  other  expenses  wholly  and
         necessarily incurred by him in the performance of his duties under this
         Agreement on production of  appropriate  receipts and other evidence of
         expenditure as required by the Company.

11.      HOLIDAYS

(1)      The Executive shall (in addition to the usual public and bank holidays)
         be  entitled  to 25  Working  Days  holiday  in each  holiday  year (as
         specified by the Company) to be taken at a time or times agreed between
         the Executive and the Company.  The Executive's holiday entitlement set
         out in this clause includes the Executive's  statutory  minimum holiday
         entitlement under the Regulations.

(2)      Holiday  entitlement  in one holiday  year  cannot  normally be carried
         forward to any subsequent holiday years.  Holiday  entitlement over and
         above  the  statutory  minimum  set  out  in  the  Regulations  may  in
         exceptional circumstances be carried over to a subsequent holiday year,
         by prior arrangement with the Company.

(3)      In the holiday year in which employment commences or terminates holiday
         shall  accrue  on a pro  rata  basis.  If on  the  termination  of  his
         employment the Executive has exceeded his accrued  holiday  entitlement
         the excess may be deducted from any sums owing to him. If the Executive
         has accrued  holiday  owing to him the  Company  may at its  discretion
         require the Executive to take the outstanding holiday during any notice
         period or make a payment in lieu instead.

(4)      If under  clause 17 the  Executive is not required to attend the office
         during any period of notice,  he will not accrue  holiday  during  that
         period over and above the minimum  required under the  Regulations.  If
         the Executive's  employment is terminated without notice, and/or if the
         Executive resigns without working the required notice period as set out
         in this Agreement, the Executive will not be entitled to pay in lieu of
         accrued  untaken holiday which will accrue during the notice period had
         he continued to be employed at work  throughout  that time,  subject to
         the Regulations.

12.      ILLNESS

(1)      The Executive shall continue to be paid during  sickness  absence (such
         payment to be inclusive of any  statutory  sick pay or social  security
         benefits to which he may be entitled)  for a total of up to 26 weeks in
         any 12 consecutive calendar months.

(2)      Thereafter  the  Executive  shall  continue  to be paid  salary  at the
         discretion of the Company.

(3)      If the  Executive is incapable  of  performing  his duties by reason of
         injury sustained  wholly or partly as a result of negligence,  nuisance
         or breach of any  statutory  duty on the part of a third  party and the
         Executive  recovers  an  amount  by way of  compensation  for  loss  of
         earnings from that third party, he shall pay to the Company a sum equal
         to the amount  recovered  or, if less,  the  amount  paid to him by the
         Company  under clause 12(1) and/or (2) above in respect of the relevant
         period of absence as a result of that injury.

(4)      The  Company  shall be entitled  to require  the  Executive  to undergo
         examinations by a medical adviser  appointed or approved by the Company
         and the Executive  authorises  the medical  adviser and/or will provide
         such  consents as are  necessary to disclose to the Company the results
         of such examinations.

13.      RESTRICTIONS DURING EMPLOYMENT

(1)      During the  continuance  of his  employment  under this  Agreement  the
         Executive  shall unless  prevented by incapacity  devote his whole time
         and attention to the business of the Company,  the Holding  Company and
         the Group and shall not without the prior written consent of the Board:

         (a)      engage in any other  business  (other  than  charity  or other
                  unpaid  work in the nature of a hobby  which does not  detract
                  from the Executive's performance of his duties); or

         (b)      be concerned or interested in any other  business of a similar
                  nature to or competitive  with that carried on by the Company,
                  the Holding Company or any other Group Company; or

         (c)      solicit  the custom of,  canvass,  approach  or deal with,  in
                  competition with the Company, the Holding Company or any other
                  Group  Company,  any  person  (including  any  company,  firm,
                  organisation or other entity) to whom the Company, the Holding
                  Company or any other Group Company  supplies  services or with
                  whom the Company,  the Holding Company or any Group Company is
                  in negotiations  or discussions  regarding the possible supply
                  of services; or

         (d)      discourage  any such  person  referred to in clause 13 (1) (c)
                  above from  conducting or continuing to conduct  business with
                  the Company, the Holding Company or any other Group Company on
                  the best terms  available to the Company,  the Holding Company
                  or any other Group Company; or

         (e)      induce or attempt to induce any director or senior employee of
                  the Company,  the Holding  Company or any other Group  Company
                  and with  whom the  Executive  has  material  dealings  in the
                  course  of his  employment,  to leave  the  employment  of the
                  Company, the Holding Company or any other Group Company

         provided that nothing in this clause shall  preclude the Executive from
         holding or being otherwise interested in any shares or other securities
         of any company which is quoted on any  recognised  investment  exchange
         (as defined by section 207(1)  Financial  Services Act 1986) so long as
         the interest of the Executive in such shares or other  securities  does
         not  extend  to more  than 5% of the  total  amount  of such  shares or
         securities.

(2)      If during his employment under this Agreement the Executive shall cease
         to be a director of the Holding  Company and/or the Company  (otherwise
         than by reason of his death,  resignation or disqualification  pursuant
         to the  articles  of  association  of the  Holding  Company  and/or the
         Company or by statute or court order or under  clause  16(2) below) his
         employment  shall continue and the terms of this Agreement  (other than
         those relating to the holding of office of director)  shall continue in
         full force and effect and the  Executive  shall have no claims  against
         the  Holding  Company or the  Company in respect of his ceasing to be a
         director.

14.      INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY

(1)      If the Executive makes, or if the Executive participates in making, any
         invention,  any design  (whether  registerable  or not), or any work in
         which copyright  and/or database right subsists and which relates to or
         is useful in connection  with the business of the Company,  the Holding
         Company or of any other Group Company the Executive  shall  disclose it
         to the Company  immediately,  whether or not it is the  property of the
         Company and:-

         (a)      in the case of an invention give the Company full  particulars
                  of the invention  together with all information,  data (in all
                  forms and in all media),  drawings  and models,  embodying  or
                  relating to the invention,  irrespective  of the nature of the
                  invention or when it was made; and

         (b)      in the case of designs or  copyright  works,  a copy of all
                  such  designs  and works;

                  and,  in  addition,  the  Company  may call for the same to be
                  delivered  forthwith to an  authorised  representative  at any
                  time.

(2)      If an  invention  made by the  Executive is the property of the Company
         under  Section 39 Patents  Act 1977 the  Executive  shall  execute  all
         documents  and do all things which may be  necessary  or desirable  for
         obtaining the best possible patent, utility model or similar protection
         for  the  invention  ("Protection")  in  territories  specified  by the
         Company and the Executive hereby assigns to the Company with full title
         guarantee all his or her rights to the  invention and all  applications
         for  Protection  and to the  grant of  Protection  in  respect  of that
         invention and shall execute all documents and do all such things as may
         be necessary or desirable for  perfecting  the assignment and obtaining
         registration of it in all territories in the name of the Company.

(3)      Notwithstanding  clause  14(2)  the  Company  shall  not be  under  any
         obligation to apply for  Protection in respect of any invention made by
         the Executive.

(4)      If any  invention is the  property of the  Executive  under  Section 39
         Patents  Act 1977 and  relates to or is useful in  connection  with the
         business or any product or service of the Company,  the Holding Company
         or of any other Group Company the  Executive  shall not grant a licence
         or execute an  assignment  in  respect of that  invention  to any other
         person  without  first  offering  to  grant a  licence  or  execute  an
         assignment  for the benefit of the Company on terms no less  favourable
         than  those  offered to the third  party,  and the  Company  shall have
         fifteen working days in which to accept or reject the offer.

(5)      If during the course of his work for the Company (whether in the course
         of normal duties or not and whether or not during normal working hours)
         the  Executive  makes,  or  participates  in the  making of any  design
         (whether  registrable  or not) or any  work in which  copyright  and/or
         database  right  subsists the Executive  hereby  assigns to the Company
         with full title  guarantee  and,  where  appropriate,  by way of future
         assignment,  all such rights for the full term thereof  throughout  the
         world,  provided that the assignment  shall not extend to those designs
         or works which are created by the Executive  wholly  outside his or her
         normal  working  hours and wholly  unconcerned  with his or her service
         under this Agreement.

(6)      In the case of designs and copyright which are registrable  anywhere in
         the world the  Executive  shall execute all documents and do all things
         which are  necessary  or  desirable  for  obtaining  the best  possible
         registration in respect of such rights in territories  specified by the
         Company and shall  assign to the Company such rights as are not already
         held by the Company in all subsequent  registrations  and  applications
         for registration.

(7)      The  Executive  hereby  irrevocably  appoints  the  Company  to be  the
         Executive's  attorney  in his or her name and on his or her  behalf  to
         sign or execute any  document or do anything  and  generally to use the
         Executive's  name for the  purpose  of giving to the  Company  the full
         benefit of the  provisions of this clause 14 and in favour of any third
         party a certificate  in writing signed by any director or the secretary
         of the  Company  that any  document or act falls  within the  authority
         conferred by this clause shall be conclusive evidence that is the case.

(8)      The Executive waives all moral rights (whether arising under Chapter IV
         of the  Copyright  Designs and Patents  Act 1988 or  otherwise,  to the
         extent permissible under the relevant legislation in each jurisdiction)
         in works to which clause 14(5) applies.

(9)      The Executive warrants that he is not bound by any legally  enforceable
         obligations  owed to persons other than the Company which would prevent
         the Executive  from  complying with the terms of this Agreement and the
         Executive  shall not  without  proper  licence  use any  inventions  or
         information  in breach of rights owed to or held by persons  other than
         the  Company  or copy or  adapt  copyright  works or  designs  owned by
         persons other than the Company.

(10)     All the  provisions of this clause 14 shall survive  termination of the
         Executive's   employment   insofar  as  they   relate  to   inventions,
         information, designs and works in which copyright and/or database right
         subsists which were created before termination.

15.      CONFIDENTIALITY

(1)      The  Executive  shall not  (except  in the  proper  performance  of his
         duties)  during or after his employment has ended divulge to any person
         or otherwise make use of (and shall use his best  endeavours to prevent
         the  publication or disclosure of) any trade secret or secret  research
         process or any  confidential  information  concerning  the  business or
         finances of the Company, the Holding Company or any other Group Company
         or any of their dealings transactions or affairs or any trade secret or
         secret research process or any such confidential information concerning
         any of their suppliers, agents, distributors or clients.

(2)      Confidential   information  includes,   but  is  not  limited  to:  any
         information of a secret,  confidential or private nature,  in any form,
         concerning the business,  accounts,  finances, customer lists, research
         projects,  pricing and/or discount  policy,  future business  strategy,
         marketing,   tenders,  price  sensitive   information,   employees  and
         officers,   formulae,    processors,   working   methods,   inventions,
         intellectual  property and other plans and strategy of the Company, the
         Holding  Company  and any other  Group  Company  or any of its or their
         respective clients.

(3)      The restrictions in clauses 15 (1) and 15 (2) shall not apply to
         information which:

         (i)      comes into the public  domain  otherwise  than by a breach by
                  the Executive of his obligations under this Agreement; or

         (ii)     is  disclosed  to the  Executive  by a third party who has not
                  received  it directly  or  indirectly  from the Company or any
                  Group Company; or

         (iii)    must be disclosed by any applicable law or the requirements of
                  a  relevant  regulatory  authority,  to  the  extent  of  such
                  required disclosure.


16.      TERMINATION OF EMPLOYMENT

(1)      The Company may at any time and in its absolute  discretion (whether or
         not any  notice of  termination  has been  given by the  Company or the
         Executive  under  clause  2(1)  above)  terminate  the  Agreement  with
         immediate effect and make a payment in lieu of notice equivalent to the
         Executive's  net basic  salary  referred  to in clause 6(1) at the then
         applicable rate for all or any unexpired part of the notice period.

(2)      The  employment  of the  Executive  may be  terminated  by the  Company
         without notice or payment in lieu of notice if:

         (a)      the Executive is guilty of any serious misconduct or any other
                  conduct which affects or is likely to affect prejudicially the
                  interests  of the  Company,  the Holding  Company or any other
                  Group Company to which he is required to render services under
                  this Agreement; or

         (b)      the Executive fails or neglects  efficiently and diligently to
                  discharge  his duties in any  material  respect or commits any
                  serious or material  repeated breach or  non-observance of any
                  of the provisions contained in this Agreement; or

         (c)      the Executive has an interim receiving order made against him,
                  becomes  bankrupt or makes any  composition or enters into any
                  deed of arrangement with his creditors in circumstances  which
                  would  have a  material  adverse  effect on the  Company,  the
                  Holding Company, the Group or their respective reputations; or

         (d)      the Executive is convicted of any arrestable  criminal offence
                  (other than an offence under road traffic  legislation  in the
                  United Kingdom or elsewhere for which a fine or  non-custodial
                  penalty  is  imposed)  in  circumstances  which  would  have a
                  material  adverse effect on the Company,  the Holding Company,
                  the Group or their respective reputations; or

         (e)      the Executive is  disqualified  from holding office in another
                  company  by  reason  of  an  order  of a  court  of  competent
                  jurisdiction; or

         (f)      the  Executive  becomes of  unsound  mind or becomes a patient
                  under the Mental Health Act 1983; or

         (g)      the  Executive is  convicted of an offence  under the Criminal
                  Justice Act 1993 in relation to insider  dealings or under any
                  other  present or future  statutory  enactment or  regulations
                  relating to insider dealings under English or New York law; or

         (h)      otherwise than:

                  i)       at the request of the Company; or

                  ii)      in   circumstances   which  a  reasonable  director,
                           properly  advised,  would  regard  as requiring his
                           resignation

                  the Executive ceases to be a director of the Company and/or
                  the  Holding Company.

17.      SUSPENSION

(1)      The Company may suspend the  Executive at any time on full pay to allow
         the Company to investigate  any complaint made against the Executive in
         relation to his employment  with the Company  provided that the fact of
         the  suspension  will only be  disclosed to employees of the Company or
         any Group Company who are involved in the investigation  and/or to whom
         such  disclosure  may, in the  reasonable  opinion of the  Company,  be
         necessary for genuine operational reasons.

(2)      During any period of notice of  termination  (which is  required  to be
         given  under  the  terms  of  this  Agreement  by  the  Company  or the
         Executive)  the  Company  shall be under no  obligation  to assign  any
         duties to the  Executive  or to  provide  any work for him and shall be
         entitled to exclude him from its premises, provided that this shall not
         affect the  Executive's  entitlement  to receive his normal  salary and
         other contractual  benefits other than that the Executive will cease to
         accrue  holiday  during  any such  period  over and above  the  minimum
         required by the Regulations.

18.      RESIGNATION AND RETURN OF COMPANY PROPERTY

(1)      Upon the termination by whatever means of this Agreement the Executive
         shall:

         (a)   immediately  resign  from  his  office  as a  director  of the
               Company,  the Holding Company, and from any other offices held
               by him in any Group Company  without  claim for  compensation;
               and

         (b)   immediately   deliver  to  the   Company   all  credit   cards
               motor-cars,   keys,  computer  media  and  other  property  in
               whatever  form, of or relating to the business of the Company,
               the Holding Company or of any other Group Company which may be
               in his possession or under his power or control; and

         (c)   immediately  deliver to the Company all details  which must be
               provided  under clause 14 above  together with all material in
               whatever  form which  describes  or embodies  the  concepts or
               designs which are so disclosed.

(2)      If the  Executive  fails to comply  with  clause  18(1) the  Company is
         hereby irrevocably authorised to appoint some person in his name and on
         his behalf to sign and complete any documents or do any thing necessary
         to give effect to this clause.

(3)      The  Executive  shall not,  without the consent of the Company,  at any
         time after the termination of this Agreement represent himself still to
         be connected with the Company,  the Holding  Company or any other Group
         Company.

19.      RECONSTRUCTION OR AMALGAMATION

         If the  employment of the Executive  under this agreement is terminated
         by  reason  of the  liquidation  of the  Company  for  the  purpose  of
         reconstruction or amalgamation and the Executive is offered  employment
         with any concern or undertaking  resulting from the  reconstruction  or
         amalgamation on terms and conditions not less favourable than the terms
         of this  Agreement  then the Executive  shall have no claim against the
         Company  or any Group  Company in  respect  of the  termination  of his
         employment under this Agreement.

20.      RESTRICTIONS

(1)      Definitions

         In this clause:

         (a)      "Termination Date" means the date on which the employment
                  terminates;

         (b)      "Person" includes any company, firm, organisation or other
                  entity;

         (c)      "Area" means any country in the world where on the Termination
                  Date the Company,  the Holding Company and/or any other Group
                  Company was supplying services;

         (d)      "Business" means any business  carried on by the Company,  the
                  Holding  Company or any other Group  Company  which relates to
                  the  provision  of   pre-clinical,   early   clinical   and/or
                  non-clinical  biological  safety  evaluation  services  to the
                  pharmaceutical  and  biotechnology,   agrochemical  and  other
                  chemical industries;

         (e)      "Client"  means any Person to whom the  Company,  the  Holding
                  Company or any other Group Company  supplied  services  during
                  the 6 months  preceding the Termination  Date and with whom at
                  any  time  during  such  period  the  Executive  was  actively
                  involved in the course of his employment;

         (f)      "Prospective  Client"  means any Person with whom the Company,
                  the   Holding   Company  or  any  other   Group   Company  had
                  negotiations  or discussions  regarding the possible supply of
                  services  during  the  6  months  immediately   preceding  the
                  Termination  Date and with whom at any time during such period
                  the  Executive  was  actively  involved  in the  course of his
                  employment.

(2)      The Executive  covenants with the Company and as trustee for each Group
         Company that in the event of the Executive terminating his employment:

         (1)      Non-competition

                  the  Executive  shall  not for a period  of 6 months  from the
                  Termination  Date  directly or  indirectly  be  interested  or
                  concerned in any business  which is carried on in the Area and
                  which is  competitive  or  likely to be  competitive  with the
                  Business  being  carried on at the  Termination  Date and with
                  which the Executive was actively  involved  during the 6 month
                  period ending on the Termination Date.

                  For this purpose, the Executive is concerned in a business if:

                  (a)      he carries it on as principal or agent; or

                  (b)      he  is  a  partner,  director,   employee,  secondee,
                           consultant  or  agent  in,  of or to any  Person  who
                           carries on the business; or

                  (c)      subject to clause 13(1)  above,  he has any direct or
                           indirect   financial   interest  (as  shareholder  or
                           otherwise) in any Person who carries on the business.

         (2)      Non-solicitation

                  the  Executive  shall  not for a period  of 6 months  from the
                  Termination Date in the Area directly or indirectly:

                  (a)      canvass or solicit  business for services  similar to
                           those  being  provided  by the  Company,  the Holding
                           Company  or  any  other  Group   Company  as  at  the
                           Termination  Date  from  any  Client  or  Prospective
                           Client;

                  (b)      seek  to do  business  or deal  with  any  Client  or
                           Prospective  Client in respect of services similar to
                           those  being  provided  by the  Company,  the Holding
                           Company  or  any  other  Group   Company  as  at  the
                           Termination Date; or

                  (c)      canvass or solicit  business  from any supplier of
                           the  Company,  the Holding  Company or any other
                           Group  Company with whom the  Executive was actively
                           involved during the 6 months ending on the
                           Termination Date or persuade such supplier to cease
                           to supply,  or to restrict or vary the terms of
                           supply to the Company, the Holding Company or any
                           other Group  Company or  otherwise  interfere  with
                           the  relationship between such a supplier and the
                           Company,  the Holding  Company or any other Group
                           Company.

         (3)      Non-poaching

                  the  Executive  shall not for a period  of 6 months  after the
                  Termination  Date directly or indirectly  induce or attempt to
                  induce any senior employee of the Company, the Holding Company
                  or any other  Group  Company  who is engaged  in any  business
                  activity carried on by the Company, the Holding Company or any
                  other Group Company at the Termination  Date and with whom the
                  Executive  during the 6 months ending on the Termination  Date
                  had  material  dealings  in the course of his  employment,  to
                  leave the  employment of the Company,  the Holding  Company or
                  any other Group Company (whether or not this would be a breach
                  of  contract  by that  employee  for  the  purposes  of  being
                  involved in or engaged in the types of business referred to in
                  sub-clause 2(1) above).

(3)      The  restrictions  in this clause are  considered  by the parties to be
         reasonable and the validity of each sub-clause shall not be affected if
         any of the others is invalid.  If any of the  restrictions  is void but
         would  be valid  if some  part of the  restriction  were  deleted,  the
         restriction  in question shall apply with such  modification  as may be
         necessary to make it valid.

(4)      The Executive  acknowledges  that the  provisions of this clause are no
         more extensive  than is reasonable to protect the Company,  the Holding
         Company or the Group.

(5)      If the Executive is suspended  from work under the provisions of clause
         17, the Company may, at its sole  discretion,  agree that the period of
         time during which the non-competition  restriction  contained in clause
         20(2)(1) is enforceable,  starts to run from the date of the suspension
         and not from the Termination Date.

21.      SEVERABILITY

         If  any  of  the  provisions  of  this  Agreement   become  invalid  or
         unenforceable  for any reason by virtue of applicable law the remaining
         provisions  shall continue in full force and effect and the Company and
         the  Executive  hereby  undertake to use all  reasonable  endeavours to
         replace any legally invalid or unenforceable provision with a provision
         which will  promise to the  parties  (as far as  practicable)  the same
         commercial  results as were  intended or  contemplated  by the original
         provision.

22.      NOTICES

(1)      Any notice required or permitted to be given under this Agreement shall
         be given in writing  delivered  personally  or sent by first class post
         pre-paid  recorded  delivery  (air mail if overseas) or by facsimile to
         the party due to receive  such  notice at, in the case of the  Company,
         its  registered  office from time to time (and marked for the attention
         of the  Company  Secretary)  and,  in the  case of the  Executive,  his
         address as set out in this  Agreement  (or such  address as he may have
         notified to the Company).

(2)      Any notice  delivered  personally  shall be deemed to be received  when
         delivered to the address  provided in this Agreement or as subsequently
         notified in writing and any notice sent by pre-paid  recorded  delivery
         post shall be deemed (in the absence of evidence of earlier receipt) to
         be received 2 days after posting and in proving the time of despatch it
         shall be  sufficient to show that the envelope  containing  such notice
         was properly addressed,  stamped and posted. A notice sent by facsimile
         shall be deemed to have  been  received  on  receipt  by the  sender of
         confirmation  in the  transmission  report that the  facsimile had been
         sent.

23.      STATUTORY INFORMATION

(1)      The  Schedule to this  Agreement  sets out  information  required to be
         given to the Executive by the Employment Rights Act 1996.


24.      MISCELLANEOUS

(1)      This Agreement is governed by and shall be construed in accordance with
         the laws of England.

(2)      The parties to this Agreement  submit to the exclusive  jurisdiction of
         the English courts.

(3)      This Agreement  contains the entire  understanding  between the parties
         and  supersedes  all  previous  agreements  and  arrangements  (if any)
         relating to the employment of the Executive by the Company (which shall
         be deemed to have been terminated by mutual consent).

(4)      The Executive  authorises  the Company to deduct from any  remuneration
         payable to the Executive  under this Agreement any sums due from him to
         the Company or any Group  Company  including  the cost of repairing any
         damage  to  Company  or  any  Group  Company  property  caused  by  the
         Executive.

THIS  AGREEMENT  has been executed as a DEED and is intended to be and is hereby
delivered on the date on page 1.


<PAGE>


                                    SCHEDULE

                    STATEMENT OF PARTICULARS PURSUANT TO THE
                           EMPLOYMENT RIGHTS ACT 1996

1.  The Executive's period of continued  employment commenced on 1 February
    1999. A period of employment with a previous employer does not count as
    part of the Executive's continuous employment with the Company.

2.  A contracting-out certificate is not in force in respect of this employment

3.  There is no formal  disciplinary or grievance  procedure  applicable to
    this position.  Any grievance which the Executive wishes to exercise or
    any disciplinary  action taken by the Company will be dealt with by the
    chairman of the Holding Company.  If the Executive is dissatisfied with
    any  decision he can within 5 working days of that  decision  appeal to
    the Board whose decision shall be final and binding.  For the avoidance
    of doubt any disciplinary or grievance  procedure does not form part of
    the service agreement.

4.  The Executive is under no obligation to work overseas for periods exceeding
    1 month.

5.  The Company is not a party to any  collective  agreement  which affects
    the Executive's employment.

Executed as a Deed by
HUNTINGDON LIFE SCIENCES
LIMITED                               ................................
                                                              Director


                                      ................................
                                            Director/Company Secretary


<PAGE>


Signed as a Deed by
JULIAN TORQUIL GRIFFITHS
in the presence of:                  .................................


                                     .................................
                                                  Signature of Witness


                                     .................................
                                                       Name of Witness



                                     .................................

                                     .................................

                                     .................................
                                                               Address


                                     .................................
                                                            Occupation




</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-2
<SEQUENCE>17
<TEXT>



DATED     29 April                                                1999







                          (1) HUNTINGDON LIFE SCIENCES
                                     LIMITED


                                     - and -


                           (2) DR FRANK WILLIAM BONNER





                      ------------------------------------

                                SERVICE AGREEMENT
                      -------------------------------------









                                 Charles Russell
                              8-10 New Fetter Lane
                                     London
                                    EC4A 1RS

                            Telephone: 0171 203 5000
                              Ref: DJSG/GXW/37971/1


<PAGE>


                                    CONTENTS
                                                                        Page

1.       DEFINITIONS AND INTERPRETATION..................................  1

2.       TERM OF EMPLOYMENT..............................................  2

3.       DUTIES..........................................................  2

4.       PLACE OF WORK AND RELOCATION....................................  3

5.       GRATUITIES AND CODES OF CONDUCT.................................  4

6.       REMUNERATION....................................................  5

7.       OTHER BENEFITS..................................................  5

8.       EXPENSES........................................................  7

9.       HOLIDAYS........................................................  7

10.      ILLNESS.........................................................  7

11.      RESTRICTIONS DURING EMPLOYMENT..................................  8

12.      INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY...........................................  9

13.      CONFIDENTIALITY................................................. 11

14.      TERMINATION OF EMPLOYMENT....................................... 12

15.      SUSPENSION...................................................... 13

16.      RESIGNATION AND RETURN OF COMPANY PROPERTY...................... 14

17.      RECONSTRUCTION OR AMALGAMATION.................................. 14

18.      RESTRICTIONS.................................................... 15

19.      SEVERABILITY.................................................... 17

20.      NOTICES......................................................... 18

21.      STATUTORY INFORMATION........................................... 18

22.      MISCELLANEOUS................................................... 18

SCHEDULE................................................................. 20



<PAGE>



1\230299\\GXW|LZM211.D

T H I S   A G R E E M E N T  is made on 29 April                        1999

B E T W E E N :

(1)      HUNTINGDON LIFE SCIENCES LIMITED whose registered  office is at Woolley
         Road, Alconbury,  Huntingdon,  Cambridgeshire PE17 5HS (the "Company");
         and

(2)      DR FRANK WILLIAM BONNER of 2 Beal Croft, Warkorth, Northumberland, 
         NE65 0XL (the "Executive").

IT IS AGREED that the Company shall employ the Executive and the Executive shall
serve the  Company as Science  and  Technology  Director  of the  Company and of
Huntingdon  Life Sciences  Group Plc on the  following  terms and subject to the
following conditions (the "Agreement"):

1.       DEFINITIONS AND INTERPRETATION

(1)      In this Agreement unless the context otherwise requires the following
         expressions shall have the following meanings:

         "Associated Company"        means:

                  (a)      a company  which is not a  Subsidiary  of the Company
                           but whose issued  equity share capital (as defined in
                           s744 of the  Companies  Act  1985)  is owned as to at
                           least 20% by the Company or one of its  Subsidiaries;
                           and

                  (b)      a Subsidiary (as defined below)

         "Board"  the board of directors for the time being of the Holding
                  Company;

         "Group"           means  the  Company,  the  Holding  Company  and  any
                           Subsidiaries and Associated  Companies of the Company
                           and/or  the  Holding  Company  for the time being and
                           "Group Company" means any one of them;

         "Holding Company" means Huntingdon Life Sciences Group Plc;

         "Subsidiary"      means a Subsidiary within the meaning of
                           s736 of the Companies Act 1985;

         "Working Day"     means a day other than a Saturday, Sunday or bank or
                           other public holiday in England.

(2)      Any reference to a statutory  provision  shall be deemed to include a
         reference to any statutory  modification or re-enactment of it.

(3)      The headings in this Agreement are for convenience only and shall not
         affect its construction or interpretation.

(4)      References in this  Agreement to a person  include a body corporate and
         an  incorporated  association  of persons and  references  to a company
         include any body corporate.

(5)      Where appropriate, references to the Executive include his personal
         representatives.

2.       TERM OF EMPLOYMENT

(1)      The  employment  of the  Executive  commenced on 17 September  1998 and
         (subject to termination as provided in clause 14 below) shall be for an
         indefinite  period terminable by the Executive by giving to the Company
         6  months'  notice  in  writing  and by the  Company  by  giving to the
         Executive 12 months' notice in writing.

(2)      Notwithstanding clause 2(1) above the employment of the Executive shall
         automatically terminate on the day when the Executive reaches age 65 or
         the normal  retiring age applicable to directors of the Group from time
         to time.

(3)      The  Executive  represents  and  warrants  that he is not  bound  by or
         subject to any court order, agreement, arrangement or undertaking which
         in any way restricts or prohibits him from entering into this Agreement
         or performing his duties under it.

3.       DUTIES

(1) The Executive shall during his employment under this Agreement:

         (a)      perform the duties and exercise the powers which the Board may
                  from time to time  properly  assign to him in his  capacity as
                  Science  and  Technology  Director or in  connection  with the
                  conduct and  management  of the business of the  Company,  the
                  Holding  Company or the  business of any other  Group  Company
                  (including  serving on the board of such  Group  Company or on
                  any other  executive body or any committee of such a company);
                  and

         (b)      do all in his  power  to  promote,  develop  and  protect  the
                  business of the  Company,  the  Holding  Company and any other
                  Group Company and at all times and in all respects  conform to
                  and  comply  with the  proper and  reasonable  directions  and
                  regulations of the Board.

(2)      The Executive  shall give to the Board such  information  regarding the
         affairs of the Company,  the Holding Company and, where  relevant,  the
         Group as it shall require,  and in any event, report regularly and keep
         the Board informed.

(3)      The  Executive  shall be  required  to perform  his  duties  during the
         Company's  normal  office  hours of 8.30am to 5.00pm,  and during  such
         additional hours as may be necessary for the proper  performance of his
         duties.  No additional  pay or time-off will be permitted in respect of
         hours worked outside normal office hours.

(4)      In accordance with the Working Time Regulations  1998  ("Regulations"),
         the Executive's  average working time,  including  overtime,  shall not
         exceed 48 hours  for each  seven day  period  in any  reference  period
         subject to the  Executive's  right to opt-out of the 48 hour maximum by
         his entering into a separate agreement with the Company.

(5)      Working  time,  for the  purposes  of the  Regulations,  means any time
         during  which the  Executive  is working at the disposal of the Company
         and carrying out duties on behalf of the Company,  the Holding  Company
         and/or  the  Group,  but shall  not  include  travel to and from  work,
         travelling  time  whilst in work  including  international  travel,  or
         entertaining of clients and/or suppliers  outside of office hours, meal
         breaks or other rest breaks.

4.       PLACE OF WORK AND RELOCATION

(1)      The Executive's  normal place of work shall be the Company's offices at
         Huntingdon but the Executive  shall work in any place within the United
         Kingdom  which the Board may  require  and he may be required to travel
         abroad when required by the Company for the proper  performance  of his
         duties.

(2)      If the Company  requires the Executive to work  permanently  at a place
         which  necessitates  a move from his present  home  address the Company
         will reimburse the Executive for such removal and  relocation  expenses
         as are directly and  reasonably  incurred as a result of the  Company's
         requirement up to a maximum of (pound)8,000 gross.

(3)      If the  Executive  gives notice to terminate his  employment  within 12
         months of any  relocation  for which the  Company  has  reimbursed  the
         Executive  his  expenses  in  accordance  with  clause  4 (2)  of  this
         Agreement,  the  Company may  request  repayment  of the full amount of
         relocation expenses reimbursed.

(4)      If the Executive  gives notice to terminate his  employment  between 12
         and 24 months of any  relocation  for which the Company has  reimbursed
         the  Executive  his  expenses in  accordance  with clause 4 (2) of this
         Agreement,  the  Company  may  request  repayment  of up to  50% of the
         relocation  expenses  reimbursed reducing by one twelfth for each month
         after the twelfth month following completion.

(5)      The  Executive,  by his  signature to this  Agreement,  authorises  the
         Company to deduct any  relocation  expenses to be repaid  under  clause
         4(3) or 4(4)  from any  sums due to the  Executive  on  termination  of
         employment.  Should such sum be  insufficient  the Executive  agrees to
         repay the relocation expenses as a debt owing to the Company.

(6)      The  Executive  will be liable for payment of any income tax arising in
         respect of the  relocation  expenses,  referred to in this clause 4, to
         the extent that the amount exceeds the Inland  Revenue Extra  Statutory
         Concession from time to time relating to relocation expenses.

5.       GRATUITIES AND CODES OF CONDUCT

(1)      Other than routine  hospitality  and  corporate  gifts of nominal value
         received in the ordinary  course of business,  the Executive  shall not
         directly  or  indirectly  accept any  commission,  rebate,  discount or
         gratuity  in cash or in kind  from any  person  who has or is  having a
         business relationship with any Group Company.

(2)      The  Executive  shall  comply  (and  procure  that his spouse and minor
         children,  step-children  or any  dependents  shall  comply)  with  all
         applicable rules and regulations of the London Stock Exchange,  the New
         York Stock Exchange,  the US Securities  Exchange  Commission,  and any
         codes of conduct adopted by the Group concerning dealings in securities
         for  the  time  being  in  force  and  any  other  relevant  regulatory
         authority.

6.       REMUNERATION

(1)      The Company shall pay to the Executive a salary at the rate of
         (pound)140,000 gross per year.

(2)      The  Executive's  salary shall accrue from day to day and be payable
         by equal monthly  instalments  in arrears on the 20th day
         of each month.

(3)      The  Executive's  salary  shall be  reviewed  once in every year of the
         term. The  undertaking of a salary review does not confer a contractual
         right  (whether  express or implied) to any  increase in salary and the
         Executive acknowledges that any salary increase is at the discretion of
         the Company.

(4)      Notwithstanding  anything to the contrary in the Company's  Articles of
         Association the salary in 6 (1) above shall be inclusive of any fees to
         which the Executive may be entitled as a director of the Company or any
         Group Company and the Executive shall waive his right to any such fee.

(5)      The Company may, in its absolute  discretion,  pay to the Executive a
         bonus of such amount payable at such time(s) as may from
         time to time be determined by the Board.

(6)      The Executive  shall subject to the rules of the scheme,  as amended or
         varied from time to time at the Group's  discretion and at the absolute
         discretion of the Holding Company's Remuneration Committee, be entitled
         to participate in the Huntingdon Life Sciences Group  Unapproved  Share
         Option  Scheme for the time being in force and in  accordance  with the
         scheme rules.  The Executive shall not be entitled to any  compensation
         for the loss of this right or loss of any benefit  granted  pursuant to
         the scheme on termination of this Agreement.

7.       OTHER BENEFITS

(1)      The Executive is entitled to membership of the following schemes (each
         referred to below as an "insurance scheme"):

                  (a)      a  salary   continuance   on   long-term   disability
                           insurance  scheme  applicable  to  employees  in  the
                           Executive's  category generally  providing such cover
                           for the  Executive  as the  Company  may from time to
                           time notify to him;

                  (b)      a life  insurance  scheme  under  which  a  lump  sum
                           benefit  shall be  payable on the  Executive's  death
                           while the Agreement  continues;  the benefit of which
                           shall be paid to such  dependants of the Executive or
                           other  beneficiary  as the  trustees  of  the  scheme
                           select at their  discretion,  after  considering  any
                           beneficiaries  identified  by  the  Executive  in any
                           expression  of his wishes  delivered  to the trustees
                           before his death. The benefit is equal to 4 times the
                           Executive's  basic  annual  salary  at his  death but
                           basic annual salary for this purpose shall not exceed
                           the allowable maximum earnings cap;

                  (c)      a personal  accident  insurance scheme  applicable to
                           employees  in  the  Executive's   category  generally
                           providing such cover for the Executive as the Company
                           may from time to time notify to him;

                  (d)      a medical  expenses  insurance  scheme providing such
                           cover for the  Executive and the  Executive's  spouse
                           and children under the age of 18 years as the Company
                           may from time to time notify to him.

(2)      Benefits  under any  insurance  scheme shall be subject to the rules of
         the scheme(s) and the terms of any applicable  insurance policy and are
         conditional  upon  the  Executive  complying  with and  satisfying  any
         applicable  requirements  of the  insurers.  Copies of these  rules and
         policies and particulars of the  requirements  shall be provided to the
         Executive on request.  Provided  that the Company  shall have  complied
         with and satisfied any  requirements of the insurers  applicable to it,
         (but without  prejudice to the Company's rights pursuant to clause 7(4)
         below) the Company  shall not have any  liability to pay any benefit to
         the Executive under any insurance  scheme unless it receives payment of
         the benefit from the insurer under the scheme.

(3)      Any  insurance  scheme  which is  provided  for the  Executive  is also
         subject to the Company's  right to alter the cover provided or any term
         of the scheme or to cease to provide  (without  replacement) the scheme
         at any time if in the  reasonable  opinion  of the  Board  the state of
         health of the  Executive  is or becomes such that the Company is unable
         to  insure  the  benefits  under  the  scheme  at the  normal  premiums
         applicable to a person of the Executive's age.

(4)      The provision of any  insurance  scheme does not in any way prevent the
         Company from lawfully terminating this Agreement in accordance with the
         provisions in clause 14 even if to do so would deprive the Executive of
         membership of or cover under any such scheme.

8.       EXPENSES

         The Company shall reimburse or procure that the Executive is reimbursed
         all  reasonable   travelling   hotel  and  other  expenses  wholly  and
         necessarily incurred by him in the performance of his duties under this
         Agreement on production of  appropriate  receipts and other evidence of
         expenditure as required by the Company.

9.       HOLIDAYS

(1)      The Executive shall (in addition to the usual public and bank holidays)
         be  entitled  to 25  Working  Days  holiday  in each  holiday  year (as
         specified by the Company) to be taken at a time or times agreed between
         the Executive and the Company.  The Executive's holiday entitlement set
         out in this clause includes the Executive's  statutory  minimum holiday
         entitlement under the Regulations.

(2)      Holiday  entitlement  in one holiday  year  cannot  normally be carried
         forward to any subsequent holiday years.  Holiday  entitlement over and
         above  the  statutory  minimum  set  out  in  the  Regulations  may  in
         exceptional circumstances be carried over to a subsequent holiday year,
         by prior arrangement with the Company.

(3)      In the holiday year in which employment commences or terminates holiday
         shall  accrue  on a pro  rata  basis.  If on  the  termination  of  his
         employment the Executive has exceeded his accrued  holiday  entitlement
         the excess may be deducted from any sums owing to him. If the Executive
         has accrued  holiday  owing to him the  Company  may at its  discretion
         require the Executive to take the outstanding holiday during any notice
         period or make a payment in lieu instead.

(4)      If under  clause 15 the  Executive is not required to attend the office
         during any period of notice,  he will not accrue  holiday  during  that
         period over and above the minimum  required under the  Regulations.  If
         the Executive's  employment is terminated  without notice and/or if the
         Executive resigns without working the required notice period as set out
         in this Agreement, the Executive will not be entitled to pay in lieu of
         accrued  untaken holiday which will accrue during the notice period had
         he continued to be employed at work  throughout  that time,  subject to
         the Regulations.

10.      ILLNESS

(1)      The Executive shall continue to be paid during  sickness  absence (such
         payment to be inclusive of any  statutory  sick pay or social  security
         benefits to which he may be entitled)  for a total of up to 26 weeks in
         any 12 consecutive calendar months.

(2)      Thereafter the Executive  shall continue to be paid salary at the
         discretion of the Company.

(3)      If the  Executive is incapable  of  performing  his duties by reason of
         injury sustained  wholly or partly as a result of negligence,  nuisance
         or breach of any  statutory  duty on the part of a third  party and the
         Executive  recovers  an  amount  by way of  compensation  for  loss  of
         earnings from that third party, he shall pay to the Company a sum equal
         to the amount  recovered  or, if less,  the  amount  paid to him by the
         Company  under clause 10(1) and/or (2) above in respect of the relevant
         period of absence as a result of that injury.

(4)      The  Company  shall be entitled  to require  the  Executive  to undergo
         examinations by a medical adviser  appointed or approved by the Company
         and the Executive  authorises  the medical  adviser and/or will provide
         such  consents as are  necessary to disclose to the Company the results
         of such examinations.

11.      RESTRICTIONS DURING EMPLOYMENT

(1)      During the  continuance  of his  employment  under this  Agreement  the
         Executive  shall unless  prevented by incapacity  devote his whole time
         and attention to the business of the Company,  the Holding  Company and
         the Group and shall not without the prior written consent of the Board:

         (a)      engage in any other  business  (other  than  charity  or other
                  unpaid  work in the nature of a hobby  which does not  detract
                  from  the  Executive's  performance  of  his  duties  and  his
                  non-executive   directorship   in  Endocrine   Pharmaceuticals
                  Limited); or

         (b)      be concerned or interested in any other  business of a similar
                  nature to or competitive  with that carried on by the Company,
                  the Holding Company or any other Group Company; or

         (c)      solicit  the custom of,  canvass,  approach  or deal with,  in
                  competition with the Company, the Holding Company or any other
                  Group  Company,  any  person  (including  any  company,  firm,
                  organisation or other entity) to whom the Company, the Holding
                  Company or any other Group Company  supplies  services or with
                  whom the  Company,  the  Holding  Company  or any other  Group
                  Company  is  in  negotiations  or  discussions  regarding  the
                  possible supply of services; or

         (d)      discourage  any such  person  referred to in clause 11 (1) (c)
                  above from  conducting or continuing to conduct  business with
                  the Company, the Holding Company or any other Group Company on
                  the best terms  available to the Company,  the Holding Company
                  or any other Group Company; or

         (e)      induce or attempt to induce any director or senior employee of
                  the Company,  the Holding  Company or any other Group  Company
                  and with  whom the  Executive  has  material  dealings  in the
                  course  of his  employment,  to leave  the  employment  of the
                  Company, the Holding Company or any other Group Company

         provided that nothing in this clause shall  preclude the Executive from
         holding or being otherwise interested in any shares or other securities
         of any company which is quoted on any  recognised  investment  exchange
         (as defined by section 207(1)  Financial  Services Act 1986) so long as
         the interest of the Executive in such shares or other  securities  does
         not  extend  to more  than 5% of the  total  amount  of such  shares or
         securities.

(2)      If during his employment under this Agreement the Executive shall cease
         to be a director of the Holding  Company and/or the Company  (otherwise
         than by reason of his death,  resignation or disqualification  pursuant
         to the  articles  of  association  of the  Holding  Company  and/or the
         Company or by statute or court order or under  clause  14(2) below) his
         employment  shall continue and the terms of this Agreement  (other than
         those relating to the holding of office of director)  shall continue in
         full force and effect and the  Executive  shall have no claims  against
         the  Company or the  Holding  Company in respect of his ceasing to be a
         director.

12.      INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY

(1)      If the Executive makes, or if the Executive participates in making, any
         invention,  any design  (whether  registerable  or not), or any work in
         which copyright  and/or database right subsists and which relates to or
         is useful in connection  with the business of the Company,  the Holding
         Company or of any other Group Company the Executive  shall  disclose it
         to the Company  immediately,  whether or not it is the  property of the
         Company and:-

         (a)      in the case of an invention give the Company full  particulars
                  of the invention  together with all information,  data (in all
                  forms and in all media),  drawings  and models,  embodying  or
                  relating to the invention,  irrespective  of the nature of the
                  invention or when it was made; and

         (b)      in the case of designs or copyright works, a copy of all such
                  designs and works;

                  and,  in  addition,  the  Company  may call for the same to be
                  delivered  forthwith to an  authorised  representative  at any
                  time.

(2)      If an  invention  made by the  Executive is the property of the Company
         under  Section 39 Patents  Act 1977 the  Executive  shall  execute  all
         documents  and do all things which may be  necessary  or desirable  for
         obtaining the best possible patent, utility model or similar protection
         for  the  invention  ("Protection")  in  territories  specified  by the
         Company and the Executive hereby assigns to the Company with full title
         guarantee all his or her rights to the  invention and all  applications
         for  Protection  and to the  grant of  Protection  in  respect  of that
         invention and shall execute all documents and do all such things as may
         be necessary or desirable for  perfecting  the assignment and obtaining
         registration of it in all territories in the name of the Company.

(3)      Notwithstanding  clause  12(2) the  Company  shall not be under any
         obligation  to apply for  Protection  in  respect  of any
         invention made by the Executive.

(4)      If any  invention is the  property of the  Executive  under  Section 39
         Patents  Act 1977 and  relates to or is useful in  connection  with the
         business or any product or service of the Company,  the Holding Company
         or of any other Group Company the  Executive  shall not grant a licence
         or execute an  assignment  in  respect of that  invention  to any other
         person  without  first  offering  to  grant a  licence  or  execute  an
         assignment  for the benefit of the Company on terms no less  favourable
         than  those  offered to the third  party,  and the  Company  shall have
         fifteen working days in which to accept or reject the offer.

(5)      If during the course of his or her work for the Company (whether in the
         course of normal duties or not and whether or not during normal working
         hours) the Executive makes, or participates in the making of any design
         (whether  registrable  or not) or any  work in which  copyright  and/or
         database  right  subsists the Executive  hereby  assigns to the Company
         with full title  guarantee  and,  where  appropriate,  by way of future
         assignment,  all such rights for the full term thereof  throughout  the
         world,  provided that the assignment  shall not extend to those designs
         or works which are created by the Executive  wholly  outside his or her
         normal  working  hours and wholly  unconcerned  with his or her service
         under this Agreement.

(6)      In the case of designs and copyright which are registrable  anywhere in
         the world the  Executive  shall execute all documents and do all things
         which are  necessary  or  desirable  for  obtaining  the best  possible
         registration in respect of such rights in territories  specified by the
         Company and shall  assign to the Company such rights as are not already
         held by the Company in all subsequent  registrations  and  applications
         for registration.

(7)      The  Executive  hereby  irrevocably  appoints  the  Company  to be  the
         Executive's  attorney  in his or her name and on his or her  behalf  to
         sign or execute any  document or do anything  and  generally to use the
         Executive's  name for the  purpose  of giving to the  Company  the full
         benefit of the  provisions of this clause 12 and in favour of any third
         party a certificate  in writing signed by any director or the secretary
         of the  Company  that any  document or act falls  within the  authority
         conferred by this clause shall be conclusive evidence that is the case.

(8)      The Executive waives all moral rights (whether arising under Chapter IV
         of the  Copyright  Designs and Patents  Act 1988 or  otherwise,  to the
         extent permissible under the relevant legislation in each jurisdiction)
         in works to which clause 12(5) applies.

(9)      The Executive warrants that he is not bound by any legally  enforceable
         obligations  owed to persons other than the Company which would prevent
         the Executive  from  complying with the terms of this Agreement and the
         Executive  shall not  without  proper  licence  use any  inventions  or
         information  in breach of rights owed to or held by persons  other than
         the  Company  or copy or  adapt  copyright  works or  designs  owned by
         persons other than the Company.

(10)     All the  provisions of this clause 12 shall survive  termination of the
         Executive's   employment   insofar  as  they   relate  to   inventions,
         information, designs and works in which copyright and/or database right
         subsists which were created before termination.

13.      CONFIDENTIALITY

(1)      The  Executive  shall not  (except  in the  proper  performance  of his
         duties)  during or after his employment has ended divulge to any person
         or otherwise make use of (and shall use his best  endeavours to prevent
         the  publication or disclosure of) any trade secret or secret  research
         process or any  confidential  information  concerning  the  business or
         finances of the Company, the Holding Company or any other Group Company
         or any of their dealings transactions or affairs or any trade secret or
         secret research process or any such confidential information concerning
         any of their suppliers, agents, distributors or clients.

(2)      Confidential   information  includes,   but  is  not  limited  to:  any
         information of a secret,  confidential or private nature,  in any form,
         concerning the business,  accounts,  finances, customer lists, research
         projects,  pricing and/or discount  policy,  future business  strategy,
         marketing,   tenders,  price  sensitive   information,   employees  and
         officers,   formulae,    processors,   working   methods,   inventions,
         intellectual  property and other plans and strategy of the Company, the
         Holding  Company  and any other  Group  Company  or any of its or their
         respective clients.

(3)      The restrictions in clauses 13 (1) and 13 (2) shall not apply to
         information which:

         (i)      comes into the public domain otherwise than by a breach by
                  the Executive of his obligations under this Agreement; or

         (ii)     is  disclosed  to the  Executive  by a third party who has not
                  received  it directly  or  indirectly  from the Company or any
                  Group Company; or

         (iii)    must be disclosed by any applicable law or the requirements of
                  a  relevant  regulatory  authority,  to  the  extent  of  such
                  required disclosure.

14.      TERMINATION OF EMPLOYMENT

(1)      The Company may at any time and in its absolute  discretion (whether or
         not any  notice of  termination  has been  given by the  Company or the
         Executive  under  clause  2(1)  above)  terminate  the  Agreement  with
         immediate effect and make a payment in lieu of notice equivalent to the
         Executive's  net basic  salary  referred  to in clause 6(1) at the then
         applicable rate for all or any unexpired part of the notice period.

(2)      The employment of the Executive may be terminated by the Company
         without notice or payment in lieu of notice if:

         (a)      the Executive is guilty of any serious misconduct or any other
                  conduct which affects or is likely to affect prejudicially the
                  interests  of the  Company,  the Holding  Company or any other
                  Group Company to which he is required to render services under
                  this Agreement; or

         (b)      fails or neglects  efficiently and diligently to discharge his
                  duties in any  material  respect  or  commits  any  serious or
                  material repeated breach or non-observance by the Executive of
                  any of the provisions contained in this Agreement; or

         (c)      the Executive has an interim receiving order made against him,
                  becomes  bankrupt or makes any  composition or enters into any
                  deed of arrangement with his creditors in circumstances  which
                  would  have a  material  adverse  effect on the  Company,  the
                  Holding Company, the Group or their respective reputations; or

         (d)      the Executive is convicted of any arrestable  criminal offence
                  (other than an offence under road traffic  legislation  in the
                  United Kingdom or elsewhere for which a fine or  non-custodial
                  penalty  is  imposed)  in  circumstances  which  would  have a
                  material  adverse effect on the Company,  the Holding Company,
                  the Group or their respective reputations; or

         (e)      the Executive is  disqualified  from holding office in another
                  company  by  reason  of  an  order  of a  court  of  competent
                  jurisdiction; or

         (f)      the Executive shall become of unsound mind or become a patient
                  under the Mental Health Act 1983; or

         (g)      the  Executive is  convicted of an offence  under the Criminal
                  Justice Act 1993 in relation to insider  dealings or under any
                  other  present or future  statutory  enactment or  regulations
                  relating to insider dealings under English or New York law; or

         (h)      otherwise than:

                  i)   at the request of the Company; or

                  ii)  in circumstances which a reasonable director,
                       properly advised, would regard as requiring his
                       resignation

                  the Executive ceases to be a director of the Company and/or
                  the Holding Company.

15.      SUSPENSION

(1)      The Company may suspend the  Executive at any time on full pay to allow
         the Company to investigate  any complaint made against the Executive in
         relation to his employment  with the Company  provided that the fact of
         the  suspension  will only be  disclosed to employees of the Company or
         any Group Company who are involved in the investigation  and/or to whom
         such  disclosure  may,  in the  reasonable  opinion  of the  Company be
         necessary for genuine operational reasons.

(2)      During any period of notice of  termination  (which is  required  to be
         given  under  the  terms  of  this  Agreement  by  the  Company  or the
         Executive)  the  Company  shall be under no  obligation  to assign  any
         duties to the  Executive  or to  provide  any work for him and shall be
         entitled to exclude him from its premises, provided that this shall not
         affect the  Executive's  entitlement  to receive his normal  salary and
         other contractual  benefits other than that the Executive will cease to
         accrue  holiday  during  any such  period  over and above  the  minimum
         required by the Regulations.
16.      RESIGNATION AND RETURN OF COMPANY PROPERTY

(1)      Upon the termination by whatever means of this Agreement the Executive
         shall:

         (a)      immediately  resign  from  his  office  as a  director  of the
                  Company,  the Holding  Company and from any other offices held
                  by him in any Group Company  without  claim for  compensation;
                  and

         (b)      immediately   deliver  to  the   Company   all  credit   cards
                  motor-cars,   keys,  computer  media  and  other  property  in
                  whatever  form, of or relating to the business of the Company,
                  the Holding Company or of any other Group Company which may be
                  in his possession or under his power or control; and

         (c)      immediately  deliver to the Company all details  which must be
                  provided  under clause 12 above  together with all material in
                  whatever  form which  describes  or embodies  the  concepts or
                  designs which are so disclosed.

(2)      If the  Executive  fails to comply  with  clause  16(1) the  Company is
         hereby irrevocably authorised to appoint some person in his name and on
         his behalf to sign and complete any documents or do any thing necessary
         to give effect to this clause.

(3)      The  Executive  shall not,  without the consent of the Company,  at any
         time after the termination of this Agreement represent himself still to
         be connected with the Company,  the Holding  Company or any other Group
         Company.

17.      RECONSTRUCTION OR AMALGAMATION

         If the  employment of the Executive  under this agreement is terminated
         by  reason  of the  liquidation  of the  Company  for  the  purpose  of
         reconstruction or amalgamation and the Executive is offered  employment
         with any concern or undertaking  resulting from the  reconstruction  or
         amalgamation on terms and conditions not less favourable than the terms
         of this  Agreement  then the Executive  shall have no claim against the
         Company  or any Group  Company in  respect  of the  termination  of his
         employment under this Agreement.

18.      RESTRICTIONS

(1)      Definitions

         In this clause:

         (a)      "Termination Date" means the date on which the employment
                  terminates;

         (b)      "Person" includes any company, firm, organisation or other
                  entity;

         (c)      "Area" means any country in the world where on the Termination
                  Date the Company,  the Holding  Company and/or any other Group
                  Company was supplying services;

         (d)      "Business" means any business  carried on by the Company,  the
                  Holding  Company or any other Group  Company  which relates to
                  the  provision  of   pre-clinical,   early   clinical   and/or
                  non-clinical   biological   safety   evaluation  and  research
                  services to the pharmaceutical and biotechnology, agrochemical
                  and other chemical industries;

         (e)      "Client"  means any Person to whom the  Company,  the  Holding
                  Company  or any other  Group  Company  supplied  during  the 6
                  months  preceding  the  Termination  Date and with whom at any
                  time during such period the Executive was actively involved in
                  the course of his employment;

         (f)      "Prospective  Client"  means any Person with whom the Company,
                  the   Holding   Company  or  any  other   Group   Company  had
                  negotiations  or discussions  regarding the possible supply of
                  services  during  the  6  months  immediately   preceding  the
                  Termination  Date and with whom at any time during such period
                  the  Executive  was  actively  involved  in the  course of his
                  employment.

(2)      The  Executive  covenants  with the  Company  and as  trustee  for
         each  Group  Company  that in the  event of the  Executive
         terminating his employment:

         (1)      Non-competition

                  the  Executive  shall  not for a period  of 6 months  from the
                  Termination  Date  directly or  indirectly  be  interested  or
                  concerned in any business  which is carried on in the Area and
                  which is  competitive  or  likely to be  competitive  with the
                  Business  being  carried on at the  Termination  Date and with
                  which the Executive was actively  involved  during the 6 month
                  period ending on the Termination  Date, but so that nothing in
                  this clause 18(2)(1) will prevent the Executive from accepting
                  employment    with,   on   an   in-house   basis   only,   any
                  pharmaceutical,   biotechnological,   agrochemical   or  other
                  chemical company.

                  For this purpose, the Executive is concerned in a business if:

                  (a)      he carries it on as principal or agent; or

                  (b)      he  is  a  partner,  director,   employee,  secondee,
                           consultant  or  agent  in,  of or to any  Person  who
                           carries on the business; or

                  (c)      subject to clause 11(1)  above,  he has any direct or
                           indirect   financial   interest  (as  shareholder  or
                           otherwise) in any Person who carries on the business.

         (2)      Non-solicitation

                  the Executive  shall  not for a period of 6 months from the
                  Termination Date in the Area directly or indirectly:

                  (a)      canvass or solicit  business for services  similar to
                           those  being  provided  by the  Company,  the Holding
                           Company  or  any  other  Group   Company  as  at  the
                           Termination  Date  from  any  Client  or  Prospective
                           Client;

                  (b)      seek  to do  business  or deal  with  any  Client  or
                           Prospective  Client in respect of services similar to
                           those  being  provided  by the  Company,  the Holding
                           Company  or  any  other  Group   Company  as  at  the
                           Termination Date; or



<PAGE>


                  canvass  or solicit business from any supplier of the Company,
                  the Holding  Company or any other Group  Company with
                  whom the Executive was actively involved during the 6
                  months  ending on the  Termination  Date or  persuade
                  such  supplier to cease to supply,  or to restrict or
                  vary the terms of supply to the Company,  the Holding
                  Company  or any  other  Group  Company  or  otherwise
                  interfere  with  the  relationship   between  such  a
                  supplier and the Company,  the Holding Company or any
                  other Group Company.



<PAGE>


                  Non-poaching
                  the  Executive  shall not for a period  of 6 months  after the
                  Termination  Date directly or indirectly  induce or attempt to
                  induce any senior employee of the Company, the Holding Company
                  or any other  Group  Company  who is engaged  in any  business
                  activity carried on by the Company, the Holding Company or any
                  other Group Company at the Termination  Date and with whom the
                  Executive  during the 6 months ending on the Termination  Date
                  had  material  dealings  in the course of his  employment,  to
                  leave the  employment of the Company,  the Holding  Company or
                  any other Group Company (whether or not this would be a breach
                  of  contract  by that  employee  for  the  purposes  of  being
                  involved in or engaged in the types of business referred to in
                  sub-clause 2(1) above).

(3)      The  restrictions  in this clause are  considered  by the parties to be
         reasonable and the validity of each sub-clause shall not be affected if
         any of the others is invalid.  If any of the  restrictions  is void but
         would  be valid  if some  part of the  restriction  were  deleted,  the
         restriction  in question shall apply with such  modification  as may be
         necessary to make it valid.

(4)      The  Executive  acknowledges  that the  provisions  of this clause are
         no more  extensive  than is  reasonable  to protect the
         Company, the Holding Company or the Group.

(5)      If the Executive is suspended  from work under the provisions of clause
         15, the Company may, at its sole  discretion,  agree that the period of
         time during which the non-competition  restriction  contained in clause
         18(2)(1) is enforceable,  starts to run from the date of the suspension
         and not from the Termination Date.

19.      SEVERABILITY

         If  any  of  the  provisions  of  this  Agreement   become  invalid  or
         unenforceable  for any reason by virtue of applicable law the remaining
         provisions  shall continue in full force and effect and the Company and
         the  Executive  hereby  undertake to use all  reasonable  endeavours to
         replace any legally invalid or unenforceable provision with a provision
         which will  promise to the  parties  (as far as  practicable)  the same
         commercial  results as were  intended or  contemplated  by the original
         provision.

20.      NOTICES

(1)      Any notice required or permitted to be given under this Agreement shall
         be given in writing  delivered  personally  or sent by first class post
         pre-paid  recorded  delivery  (air mail if overseas) or by facsimile to
         the party due to receive  such  notice at, in the case of the  Company,
         its  registered  office from time to time (and marked for the attention
         of the  Company  Secretary)  and,  in the  case of the  Executive,  his
         address as set out in this  Agreement  (or such  address as he may have
         notified to the Company).

(2)      Any notice  delivered  personally  shall be deemed to be received  when
         delivered to the address  provided in this Agreement or as subsequently
         notified in writing and any notice sent by pre-paid  recorded  delivery
         post shall be deemed (in the absence of evidence of earlier receipt) to
         be received 2 days after posting and in proving the time of despatch it
         shall be  sufficient to show that the envelope  containing  such notice
         was properly addressed,  stamped and posted. A notice sent by facsimile
         shall be deemed to have  been  received  on  receipt  by the  sender of
         confirmation  in the  transmission  report that the  facsimile had been
         sent.

21.      STATUTORY INFORMATION

(1)      The Schedule to this Agreement sets out information required to be
         given to the Executive by the Employment Rights Act 1996.

22.      MISCELLANEOUS

(1)      This Agreement is governed by and shall be construed in accordance
         with the laws of England.

(2)      The parties to this Agreement submit to the exclusive jurisdiction 
         of the English courts.

(3)      This Agreement  contains the entire  understanding  between the parties
         and  supersedes  all  previous  agreements  and  arrangements  (if any)
         relating to the employment of the Executive by the Company (which shall
         be deemed to have been terminated by mutual consent).

(4)      The Executive  authorises  the Company to deduct from any  remuneration
         payable to the Executive  under this Agreement any sums due from him to
         the Company or any Group  Company  including  the cost of repairing any
         damage  to  Company  or  any  Group  Company  property  caused  by  the
         Executive.

THIS  AGREEMENT  has been executed as a DEED and is intended to be and is hereby
delivered on the date on page 1.


<PAGE>


                                    SCHEDULE

                    STATEMENT OF PARTICULARS PURSUANT TO THE
                                   EMPLOYMENT RIGHTS ACT 1996

1.  The Executive's period of continued  employment commenced on 3 November
    1997. A period of employment with a previous employer does not count as
    part of the Executive's continuous employment with the Company.

2.  A contracting-out certificate is not in force in respect of this employment.

3.  There is no formal  disciplinary or grievance  procedure  applicable to
    this position.  Any grievance which the Executive wishes to exercise or
    any disciplinary  action taken by the Company will be dealt with by the
    chairman of the Holding Company.  If the Executive is dissatisfied with
    any  decision he can within 5 working days of that  decision  appeal to
    the Board whose decision shall be final and binding.  For the avoidance
    of doubt any disciplinary or grievance  procedure does not form part of
    the service agreement.

4.  The Executive is under no obligation to work overseas for periods exceeding
    1 month.

5.  The  Company is not a party to any collective agreement which  affects the
    Executive's employment.

Executed as a Deed by
HUNTINGDON LIFE SCIENCES
LIMITED                                 ................................
                                                                Director


                                        ................................
                                              Director/Company Secretary


<PAGE>


Signed as a Deed by
DR FRANK WILLIAM BONNER
in the presence of:                      .................................


                                         .................................
                                                      Signature of Witness


                                         .................................
                                                           Name of Witness



                                         .................................

                                         .................................

                                         .................................
                                                                   Address


                                         .................................
                                                                Occupation




</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-3
<SEQUENCE>18
<TEXT>

                                 CONFORMED COPY


                                     <PAGE>





                              Dated 10 August 1998







                     (1) HUNTINGDON LIFE SCIENCES GROUP PLC

                         (2) THE DIRECTORS NAMED HEREIN

                        (3) THE SUBSCRIBERS NAMED HEREIN










                             SUBSCRIPTION AGREEMENT













                                 Charles Russell
                              8-10 New Fetter Lane
                                     London
                                    EC4A 1RS


                                 Ref: SG/25407/3


<PAGE>


THIS AGREEMENT is made the tenth day of August 1998

BETWEEN:-



<PAGE>


1.    HUNTINGDON LIFE SCIENCES GROUP PLC the registered office of which is at
      Woolley  Road,  Alconbury,  Huntingdon,  Cambridgeshire  PE17  5HS (the
      "Company");

2.    The  persons  whose  names  and  addresses  are set out in  Schedule  1
      (together the "Directors");

3.    The  persons  whose  names  and  addresses  are set out in  Schedule  2
      (together the "Subscribers").

WHEREAS:



<PAGE>


(A)  The  Company  was  incorporated  under  the  Companies  Act  1948 on 14
     December  1951 as a private  company  limited by shares  under  company
     registration  number  502370  with the name of  Nutrition  Research  Co
     Limited.  Its name was changed to Nutrition Research Unit Limited on 27
     May 1959 and to Huntingdon  Research  Centre plc on 12 April 1983 (when
     it was  re-registered as a public company) to Huntingdon  International
     Holdings plc on 28 June 1985 and to Huntingdon  Life Sciences Group plc
     on 4 April 1997.

(B)  Immediately  prior to the passing of the  resolutions as set out in the
     printed  Notice of Meeting  forming part of the  Prospectus (as defined
     below), the Company had an authorised share capital of (pound)7,000,000
     divided  into   140,000,000   ordinary  shares  of  5p  each  of  which
     114,006,863  ordinary  shares of 5p each had been  allotted  and issued
     fully paid.

(C)  For the purpose of, inter alia, approving this Agreement (to enable the
     Panel on Take-overs  and Mergers to waive the  obligations to which the
     Subscribers  would  otherwise be subject  under rule 9 of the Code) and
     implementing the Subscription and the Placing, the Company is proposing
     to convene  the EGM (as  defined  below) at which the  Resolutions  (as
     defined below) shall be proposed.

(D)  The Directors are all the directors of the Company at the date hereof.

(E)  In reliance upon the Documents,  the Accounts, the Interim Results, any
     Approved Document, any Supplementary Prospectus,  any other information
     published  or  otherwise  made  public  by  the  Company,  the  various
     warranties,  covenants,  indemnities,  undertakings and other terms and
     conditions  contained  herein  (but upon  nothing  else as between  the
     Company,  the  Directors and the  Subscribers),  the  Subscribers  have
     agreed to subscribe  for the  Subscription  Shares at the  Subscription
     Price on the terms and subject to the conditions of this Agreement.


<PAGE>


NOW IT IS HEREBY AGREED as follows:-


1.       Interpretation

1.1      In this  Agreement (including the Recitals and the  Schedules) the
         following words and expressions shall have the respective meanings set
         out below:-

         "Accounts"             the audited  balance  sheet of each Group  
                                Company as at 31 December 1997 and the audited  
                                profit and loss account and cash flow statement
                                of each  Group  Company  for  the  financial
                                year ended on 31  December  1997,  including
                                in the  case  of  the  Company  the  audited
                                consolidated  balance  sheet as at that date
                                and  audited  consolidated  profit  and loss
                                account   for  that  year,   and  all  notes
                                thereto  and the  directors'  and  auditors'
                                reports;

         "Accountants"          Arthur  Andersen  of  Betjeman  House, 104
                                Hills Road, Cambridge, CB2 1LH;

         "Act"                  the Companies Act 1985 as amended;

         "Admission"            the  admission   of   the
                                Subscription Shares and the
                                Placing   Shares   to   the
                                Official List of the London
                                Stock   Exchange   becoming
                                effective   in   accordance
                                with   Rule   7.1   of  the
                                Listing Rules;

         "Application Form"     the application form  for use  by  Qualifying
                                Shareholders  (as  defined  in  the  Placing
                                Agreement) in  connection  with the Placing,
                                in the agreed form (Document A);

         "Approved Document"    has the meaning attributed  to it in the 
                                Responsibility  Statements;

         "Banks"             National Westminster Bank plc, Comerica Bank Inc.
                             and First National Bank of Maryland Inc.;

         "Board"                the Board of Directors of the Company or a duly
                                authorised committee thereof;

         "Bridging              Agreement"   the  agreement
                                between    the     Company,
                                Huntingdon   Life  Sciences
                                Limited     ("HLSL")    and
                                National  Westminster  Bank
                                Plc  regarding  a  bridging
                                facility in the agreed form
                                (Document B);

         "Business Day"        any  day  on  which  clearing  banks  in the
                               City of London are open for business;

         "Code"                the City Code on Take-overs and Mergers;

         "Directors"           the Executive  Directors  and  Non-Executive
                               Directors;

         "Documents"           the  Prospectus,   Application  Form,  Proxy
                               and the Press Announcement;

         "Dresdner Kleinwort Benson"   Kleinwort  Benson  Limited  of 20 
                                       Fenchurch  Street,
                                       London EC3P 3DB;

         "EGM"                  the  Extraordinary  General  Meeting  of the
                                Company  to  be  convened  for  2  September
                                1998  at  which  the  Resolutions  are to be
                                proposed,    and   any   adjourned   meeting
                                thereof;

         "Executive Directors"  those  persons whose names and addresses
                                are set out in Part A of Schedule 1;

         "Existing Facility"    has  the  meaning  attributed to it in the New
                                Facility;

         "Facility Documents"   the Existing Facility,  the New Facility, 
                                the Security,  the
                                Security  Deed,  the Bridging  Agreement and
                                the FOREX Agreement;

         "FHP                   Consultancy  Agreement" the
                                consultancy agreement to be
                                between   the  Company  and
                                Focused          Healthcare
                                Partnership Limited and the
                                undertaking    between   Mr
                                Baker and the Company, both
                                in the agreed form
                                (Documents C);

         "FOREX Agreement"      the  Existing  Ancillary  Facilities as defined
                                in the New Facility, in the agreed form
                                (Document D);

         "FSA"                  the  Financial   Services   Act   1986   as
                                amended,   including  any  regulations  made
                                pursuant thereto;

         "Group"                the Company and its subsidiary undertakings (but
                                not,  for  the   avoidance  of  doubt,   any
                                associated undertakings);

         "Group Company"        any company in the Group;

         "Interim               Results"   the    unaudited
                                consolidated  balance sheet
                                of the  Group as at 30 June
                                1998   together   with  the
                                unaudited  consolidated
                                profit and loss  account of
                                the  Group for the 6 months
                                ended on 30 June 1998;

         "Listing Rules"        the listing  rules made by the London  Stock
                                Exchange  under  Section  142 of the FSA and
                                in force at the date of this Agreement;

         "London Stock Exchange"   the London Stock Exchange Limited;

         "Mr Baker"                Andrew Baker c/o;

         "Nat West Letter"         the letter from National Westminster Bank
                                   Plc to the Subscribers in the agreed  form
                                   (Document E) confirming  that conditional
                                   only on  the  satisfaction of Conditions
                                   Precedent (ii)and (iii) in Schedule 6 to
                                   the New Facility  the facility  of
                                   (pound)24,500,000  will be advanced to the 
                                   Company on the date of that letter;

         "New Facility"            the facility agreement  between  the
                                   Company  (i) HLSL (2 Huntingdon  Life
                                   Sciences Inc. ("HLS")(3) Bankers (4) and
                                   National  Westminster Bank Plc as agent (5)
                                   in the agreed form (Document F);

         "Non-Executive Directors"    those  persons  whose names and addresses
                                      are set out in Part B of Schedule 1;

         "Ciba                      Geigy  Agreement"  the Deed
                                    of  Variation  between  the
                                    Company  and Ciba Geigy plc
                                    rescheduling   payment   of
                                    monies  due to  Ciba  Geigy
                                    plc and waiving breaches by
                                    the  Company  in the agreed
                                    form (Document G);

         "Option Agreement"         the agreement between Mr Baker and the 
                                    Company in the  agreed  form (Document H)
                                    regarding options over  Ordinary Shares
                                    to be granted to   Mr    Baker   by  the
                                    Company  on substantially the same terms
                                    as apply to the Unapproved Option Scheme;

         "Ordinary Shares"          the  ordinary  shares  of 5p each in the
                                    capital  of the Company;

         "Placing"                  the  placing  and open  offer of the
                                    Placing Shares
                                    pursuant  to the  terms  of and  subject to
                                    the conditions to the Placing Agreement;

         "Placing Agreement"        the  placing  and open offer  agreement
                                    between  the Company
                                    and Dresdner Kleinwort Benson in the
                                    agreed form (Document I);

         "Placing Shares"           the new Ordinar  Shares to be issued by the
                                    Company pursuant to the Placing Agreement;

         "Powers of Attorney"       the  powers of  attorney  given by each of
                                    the  Directors  in
                                    the agreed form (Document J);

         "Press Announcement"       means the press  announcement in the agreed
                                    form  (Document K)  giving   details
                                    inter  alia,  of the Subscription and the
                                    Placing;

         "Properties"               the properties, including  all  of  the
                                    properties   used  by  the  Group  for  the
                                    purposes  of its  business,  details of all
                                    of  which  are  set out in paragraph 8 of
                                    Part VI of the Prospectus;

         "Proposals"                the Proposals as defined in the Prospectus;

         "Prospectus"               the  prospectus  relating, inter  alia, to
                                    the Company,  the Subscription, the Placing
                                    and  the  Resolutions  in  the  agreed form
                                    (Document L);

         "Proxy"                     the form of proxy in the  agreed  form 
                                     (Document  M) for use by  shareholders 
                                     in connection with the EGM;

         "Resolutions"               the  resolutions  set out in the notice of
                                     EGM in the Prospectus;

         "Responsibility Statements"  the responsibility statements to be given
                                      by  the  Directors in the agreed form
                                      (Document N);

         "Security"             has the meaning attributed  to it in the New
                                Facility;

         "Security Deeds"       the two deeds in the agreed form (Documents
                                0) varying the Guarantee  and  Debenture  dated
                                1 November 1995  included in the  definition
                                of the  Security  and  entered  into  on the
                                date hereof;

         "Service Agreements"   the  service  agreements  to  be  between  M
                                Sandford and C  Macdonald  and  the Company,
                                respectively, in the agreed form (Documents P);

         "Specified Event"       an event occurring or matter arising on or
                                 after the date hereof and before Admission 
                                 which if it had occurred or arisen before the
                                 date hereof  would have  rendered any of the
                                 Warranties   untrue  or   incorrect  in  any
                                 respect  which is  material  in the  context
                                 of  the  Group  or the  Subscription  or the
                                 Placing;

         "Subscription Price"       12 1/2 pence per Ordinary Share;

         "Subscription Shares"      the  120,000,000  new Ordinary Shares which
                                    are to be allotted  and  issued by the
                                    Company to the Subscribers pursuant to this
                                    Agreement;

         "subsidiary undertaking    have the meanings ascribed to them
         or parent undertaking"     by Section 258 of the Act;

         "Supplementary Prospectus" means any supplementary
                                    prospectus  prepared  for  the purposes of
                                    Section  147  of the  FSA and  the Listing
                                    Rules;

         "Taxation/Tax"             includes all  forms  of  taxation, duties,
                                    imposts, contributions,  charges, sums and
                                    levies  (including    without   limitation
                                    social   security     contributions   and
                                    withholding  taxes) whatsoever and whenever
                                    imposed,  by  a Taxation  Authority  and
                                    whether or not it is primarily  payable by
                                    the  Company  or any other person, and all
                                    amounts    recoverable  by a  Taxation
                                    Authority  as  if  they were  Taxation and
                                    all  charges, interest, fines, penalties
                                    and  surcharges incidental, or relating to
                                    the same;

         "Taxation Authority"       the Inland
                                    Revenue,   H  M  Customs  &
                                    Excise,  the United  States
                                    Internal   Revenue  Service
                                    and any other  governmental
                                    department   or  agency  or
                                    office   whether   in   the
                                    United Kingdom,  the United
                                    States or elsewhere  having
                                    authority  or  jurisdiction
                                    in   relation  to  Taxation
                                    matters;

         "Unapproved Option Scheme"  the Huntingdon Unapproved Share Option
                                     Scheme  proposed to
                                     be adopted pursuant to Resolution 4;

         "Unapproved Option Scheme   the rules of the Unapproved Option
         Rules"                      Scheme in the agreed form (Document Q);

         "US Subscribers"      the Subscribers other than Andrew
                               Stafford-Deitsch and Gordon Grender;

         "VAT"                 United Kingdom value added tax;

         "Verification Notes"  the verification notes in the agreed form
                               Document R) incorporating the answers  to the
                               verification    questions   in   the   notes
                               confirming    the    factual     information
                               contained   in  the   Prospectus   as  being
                               accurate   or   not   misleading   and   the
                               statements  of  opinion  or  belief as being
                               reasonably  formed,   held  or  deduced  and
                               copies of  documents  cited in  response  to
                               such queries;

         "Warranties"          the warranties,  covenants and  undertakings
                               contained in Clause 10 and Schedule 5;

         "Working              Capital  Report" the report
                               on     the     consolidated
                               cashflow     and    working
                               capital  projections of the
                               Group   for   the    period
                               commencing  1 July 1998 and
                               ending 31 December  1999 in
                               the agreed  form  (Document
                               S).

1.2   Any  reference  to a document  being "in the agreed  form" means in the
      form of the draft or proof of the  document  signed for the  purpose of
      identification  by Charles Russell (on behalf of the  Subscribers)  and
      Simmons and Simmons (on behalf of the other parties to this Agreement).
      A complete  list of documents in the agreed form is set out in Schedule
      3.

1.3   The  Interpretation  Act  1978  shall  apply  to this  Agreement in the
      same way as it applies to an enactment.

1.4   References  in this  Agreement to Recitals,  Clauses,  sub-clauses  and
      Schedules are to the Recitals, Clauses, sub-clauses of and Schedules to
      this Agreement.

1.5   Any  provision of this  Agreement  which is expressed to bind more than
      one person shall save where stated otherwise bind them severally.

1.6   headings are included in this Agreement for convenience  only and shall
      be disregarded in its interpretation.

1.7   Reference in any form to the knowledge and/or information and/or belief
      and/or  awareness of any person  (whether  corporate or  otherwise)  or
      words to  similar  effect  shall be deemed to  include  any  knowledge,
      information,  belief or awareness  which any such person would have had
      if he or it, or (if corporate)  its  directors,  officers and employees
      had made due and careful  enquiries  (including  for the  avoidance  of
      doubt due and careful  enquiries of all relevant  advisers)  and taking
      into  consideration  the   responsibilities   of  such  person  or  (if
      corporate)  its  directors,  officers  and  employees in respect of the
      contents of the Documents.

1.8   References in this Agreement to the word "material"  shall be deemed to
      mean a serious adverse change or serious adverse changes in the context
      of the Group (including but not limited to its condition  (financial or
      otherwise), business, prospects, net worth or results of operations) or
      the  Subscription  or the  Placing  or if such  matter  gives rise to a
      readily quantifiable financial liability,  the word "material" shall be
      deemed to mean an adverse change or changes to the condition (financial
      or otherwise),  business, prospects, net worth or results of operations
      which may give rise to a liability or aggregate liability of any member
      or members of the Group of (pound)1.5 million or more.

1.9   References to statutes or statutory  provisions  include  references to
      any  orders  or  regulations  made  thereunder  and  references  to any
      statute,   provision,   order  or  regulation  as  amended,   modified,
      re-enacted  or replaced  from time to time whether  before or after the
      date hereof and to any previous statute,  statutory provision, order or
      regulation amended,  modified,  re-enacted or replaced by such statute,
      provision, order or regulation.

1.10  References  to the  Subscribers  shall,  when  made in  respect  of any
      rights, duties or obligations of any nature due to the Subscribers,  be
      deemed to  include  reference  to Mr Baker in his own  capacity  and as
      trustee for Focused Healthcare Partnership Limited.

2.    Conditions

2.1  The obligations of the Subscribers under this Agreement are conditional
     upon:-

    2.1.1   the Documents  having been  approved on behalf of the London Stock
            Exchange, the Panel on  Takeovers  and  Mergers  having  approved
            the  Prospectus  and agreeing, subject to the passing of Resolution
            1 on a poll of  independent shareholders,  to waive any obligations
            of the Subscribers to make a general offer to  shareholders of the
            Company under Rule 9 of the Code, in each case prior to the 
            publication  of the  Documents and such approval and waiver not
            being withdrawn prior to this Agreement becoming  otherwise 
            unconditional in all respects;

    2.1.2   two  copies  of  the  Prospectus   being  delivered  to  the
            Registrar of Companies for  registration  in accordance with
            Section 149 of the FSA;

    2.1.3   the  submission  (signed  where  appropriate  by each of the
            Directors)  to the London  Stock  Exchange of all  documents
            specified  by the Listing  Rules for the purposes of Section
            154 of the FSA in accordance  with the Listing Rules and the
            London  Stock  Exchange   approving  the  contents  of  such
            documents or authorising the issue of such documents without
            such  approval  by not later  than 10 August  1998,  or such
            later  date as the  Subscribers  may  agree and in any event
            before the document concerned is issued;

   2.1.4    the FHP Consultancy Agreement,  the Placing Agreement,  the Option
            Agreement, and the Service  Agreements  becoming  unconditional 
            in all  respects  other than as regards  completion  of this 
            Agreement,  and the  Company or HLSL or HLS or any of the  members
            of the Group  which are party  thereto not having  varied or agreed
            to vary any of the  terms,  or having  exercised  or omitted
            to exercise  any of its rights or  benefits  under any of such 
            documents  or any of the Facility  Documents or the Ciba Geigy 
            Agreement  (including,  but without  limitation,  consenting  to, 
            agreeing  or waiving  the  exercise or omission to exercise by any
            party to any of such  documents  or any of the Facility  Documents 
            or the Ciba Geigy Agreement of any of its  rights, benefits or 
            obligations  under any of such  documents or any of the Facility
            Documents  or the Ciba Geigy  Agreement) and the Unapproved Option
            Scheme Rules and the Approved  Option  Scheme Rules not having been
            varied,  without in any such case the prior written consent of the
            Subscribers;

   2.1.5    the receipt by Mr Baker on behalf of the Subscribers of the NatWest
            Letter;

   2.1.6    the passing of all of the  Resolutions  without  amendments
            (save with the prior written consent of the  Subscribers) on
                    or  by  2  September   1998  (or  such  later date  as the
                    Subscribers may agree);

  2.1.7      the  fulfilment  by the  Directors  and the Company of their
             respective  obligations  under  Clauses  3 and  4 and  their
             respective  obligations  under  Clauses 5.3, 5.5, 7.2, 8, 9,
             10.4 and 13.4 in accordance with their term and in any event
             on or before Admission,  or in any such case such later time
             or date as the Subscribers may agree;

  2.1.8      none of the  Warranties  being untrue or  inaccurate  in any
             material   respect  at  the  date  hereof  and  no  fact  or
             circumstances  having arisen and nothing having been done or
             omitted to be done (together an "Event") which

             (i)  would  render  any of such  Warranties  untrue  or
                  inaccurate  in any  material  respect if they were
                  repeated  as at  Admission  or at any  time  on or
                  after  28   August   1998  up  to  and   including
                  Admission; or

             (ii) would  entitle  or would have  entitled  (with the
                  giving of notice  and/or  lapse of time and/or the
                  satisfaction   of  any  other   condition   and/or
                  compliance with any other  formality) the Banks or
                  any of them:-

          (a)   to  require  repayment  before  its  stated  maturity  of any
                amounts  from time to time  outstanding  under,  or to refuse
                the making of an advance or  drawdown  or  otherwise  to make
                available   funds  under,   the  Existing   Facility  or  the
                Bridging  Agreement  or the  FOREX  Agreement  (save  for any
                Event which relates  solely to the FOREX  Agreement and which
                (i) does not give  rise to a breach  of any  other  warranty,
                condition  or term of this  Agreement,  (ii) is not a default
                and would not  entitle  the Banks or any of them to  exercise
                their   rights,   remedies  or  powers   under  the  Existing
                Facility  or  the  Bridging  Facility,  and  (iii)  is  not a
                Default or Default Occurrence under the New Facility; or

          (b)   to enforce any of the Security; or

   (iii)     which would be a Default or Default Occurrence (as
             defined  in  the  New  Facility)   under  the  New
             Facility (or would be if any advance had been made
             thereunder and remained outstanding);

    2.1.9   any  Supplementary  Prospectus  being approved by the London
            Stock Exchange and published in accordance  with the Listing
            Rules  and  Clause  3  before  the  condition  contained  in
            sub-clause 2.1.11 shall have been satisfied;

    2.1.10  the delivery by the Company and the  Executive  Directors to
            the  Subscribers  of a  certificate  in the  form set out in
            Schedule 6 on 3rd  September  1998 not later than 5.00pm (or
            such later time or date as the Subscribers may agree);

    2.1.11  Admission  occurring  on or before 4  September  1998 (or such
            later date as the Subscribers may agree); or

    2.1.12  if any demand  shall be made by any of the Banks for payment or
            repayment of any sums from  time to time  owing to the  Banks or
            any of them  pursuant  to the Existing  Facility or the Bridging
            Agreement or the FOREX Agreement save for any such demand in
            respect  solely of the FOREX  Agreement  and which (i) does not
            give rise to a breach of any other warranty, condition or term of
            this  Agreement, (ii) is not a default  and would not  entitle
            the Banks or  any of them to exercise  their rights, remedies or
            powers under the ExistingFacility  or the  Bridg in Facility,
            and (iii) is not a Default  or Default Occurrence under the New
            Facility.

         PROVIDED THAT each of the parties to this  Agreement  shall perform its
         respective obligations under this Agreement until such time (if any) as
         any of such conditions  shall have become  incapable of being fulfilled
         whereupon the provisions of Clause 2.3 shall apply.

2.2      The  Company,   each  of  the  Directors  and  the   Subscribers   will
         respectively use all reasonable endeavours to procure the fulfilment of
         the  conditions  set out in Clause  2.1 by the  times and dates  stated
         therein (or such later time and/or date as the  Subscribers  may agree)
         and undertake to provide such information,  supply such documents,  pay
         such fees,  give such  undertakings  and do all such acts and things as
         may be required by the London  Stock  Exchange to enable  Admission  to
         occur and shall notify each other party forthwith of any information of
         which they are or become aware at any time until this Agreement becomes
         unconditional  in all respects which could or does indicate that any of
         the said conditions is not, or may not be, capable of being satisfied.

2.3      If any of the  conditions  set out in Clause 2.1 is not  fulfilled,  or
         waived by the  Subscribers,  by the time and/or date specified  therein
         (or such later time and/or date as the Subscribers may agree) or, where
         no time and/or date is  specified,  before the  condition  contained in
         Clause 2.1.11 shall have been satisfied, this Agreement shall cease and
         determine  and no party to this  Agreement  will have any claim against
         any other party to this Agreement for costs,  damages,  compensation or
         otherwise except that:-

         2.3.1   such termination  shall be without  prejudice to any accrued
                 rights or obligations of any party under this Agreement;

         2.3.2   the  Company  shall pay the  reasonable  costs and  expenses
                 (including  VAT)  properly  incurred of the  Subscribers  in
                 direct  connection  with  the  Proposals  up  to  a  maximum
                 aggregate sum of (pound)500,000, unless such conditions have
                 not been  fulfilled as a direct result of the default by the
                 Subscribers under this Agreement (which for the avoidance of
                 doubt  shall  not  include  the  exercise  of any  right the
                 Subscribers may have under this Agreement); and

         2.3.3   the provisions  of  Clauses  10, 11, 13 and 18 to 20 shall
                 remain in full force and effect.

3.    Listing Application

3.1   The Company shall procure the delivery to the London Stock  Exchange or
      true copies of each of all  documents  in the  appropriate  numbers and
      (where relevant) signed by the appropriate persons or certified as true
      in  accordance  with and as required  pursuant to paragraph  7.5 of the
      Listing Rules.

3.2   Not  later  than  9.00am  on  the  day  of  the  consideration  of  the
      application  for  Admission,  the Company shall procure the delivery to
      the London Stock Exchange of payment of the appropriate listing fees in
      accordance with paragraph 7.7 of the Listing Rules.

3.3   The Company shall procure compliance with the obligations  imposed upon
      it by the Act,  Part IV of the FSA and the Listing  Rules in respect of
      or by reason of the matters  contemplated  by this Agreement  including
      but without limitation:-

      3.3.1  the filing of all original and copy documents and forms at the
             Companies Registry;

      3.3.2  the  making  available  for  inspection  at the  offices  of
             Simmons & Simmons at 21 Wilson  Street EC2M 2TX for a period
             of  not  less  than  14  days  following  the  issue  of the
             Prospectus  of the documents  required to be made  available
             for  inspection  by the  Company  by  paragraph  8.22 of the
             Listing Rules and pursuant to the Code;

      3.3.3  the making available free of charge, of sufficient copies of
             the Prospectus in accordance  with the  requirements  of the
             Listing Rules; and

      3.3.4  the delivery, as soon as practicable after the consideration
             of the  application  for Admission and in any event no later
             than five business days after they become available,  to the
             London Stock Exchange,  of any relevant  documents which are
             required by paragraph 7.8 of the Listing Rules.

3.4   The  Company  shall  procure  for  Dresdner  Kleinwort  Benson all such
      information and documents as they may reasonably  require to enable the
      Company to discharge its obligations and Dresdner  Kleinwort  Benson to
      discharge its  obligations as Sponsor and Kleinwort  Benson  Securities
      Limited to discharge its obligations as stockbroker,  to the Company in
      relation to the matters contemplated by this Agreement.

3.5   Notwithstanding  the rights of the  Subscribers  pursuant  to Clause 2,
      where after publication of the Prospectus but before Admission there is
      a significant change affecting any matter required to be included, or a
      significant  new matter  arises  which  would have been  required to be
      included, in the Prospectus by section 146 of the FSA or by the Listing
      Rules,  any Director  who becomes  aware of such change or matter shall
      forthwith  notify  the  other  Directors  and the  Subscribers  and the
      Directors shall forthwith:-

      3.5.1  disclose the change or matter to Dresdner Kleinwort Benson in
              writing; and

      3.5.2  prepare and, through Dresdner  Kleinwort Benson,  deliver on
             behalf of the  Company  to the  London  Stock  Exchange  for
             approval a Supplementary  Prospectus  containing  details of
             the change or matter in a form complying with Section 146 of
             the  FSA  and  the  Listing  Rules  and  agreed  upon by the
             Subscribers and the Company.

3.6  Forthwith on receipt of appropriate  evidence of approval by the London
     Stock Exchange of the Supplementary  Prospectus or of the authorisation
     of their issue  without such  approval,  the Company  shall procure its
     registration at the Companies Registry.

4.    Announcement and Publication

      The Company will procure:-

4.1   as soon as  practicable  after  8.00am on the date  hereof  release the
      Press Announcement to the press and the London Stock Exchange; and

4.2   on or before  close of  business  on the date hereof post copies of the
      Documents to the shareholders of the Company.

5.    Subscription

5.1   On the terms of and subject to the  conditions  of this  Agreement  and
      relying on the  warranties,  covenants,  indemnities  and  undertakings
      contained  herein the  Subscribers  (or,  in the case of Mr Baker at Mr
      Baker's discretion Focused Healthcare  Partnership  Limited ("FHP") or,
      in the case of any Subscriber  which is an investment  manager any fund
      managed by such  Subscriber)  will  subscribe  in full in cash for such
      number of the  Subscription  Shares as are set opposite  their names in
      the third column of Schedule 2 at the Subscription Price ("Subscription
      Cash") which price the Subscribers will procure to be paid or pay on or
      by Admission.

5.2   The Subscription  Shares will be subscribed free from all liens charges
      and encumbrances of any nature whatsoever.

5.3   The  Directors  undertake  with the  Subscribers  that  they will on or
      before 7.30 am on the date of Admission allot the  Subscription  Shares
      at the Subscription  Price to the  Subscribers,  or to such nominees as
      they may direct or also,  in the case of Mr Baker to FHP or also in the
      case of any Subscriber which is an investment  manager any fund managed
      by such Subscriber, conditionally only on satisfaction of the condition
      in  Clause  2.1.11  on  terms  that,   upon  such  allotment   becoming
      unconditional,  such  shares  shall be fully  paid and shall  rank pari
      passu in all respects  with and be identical to the Ordinary  Shares in
      issue   including   the  right  to  receive  all  dividends  and  other
      distributions  declared,  made or paid  after  the  date of  Admission.
      Forthwith   after  such   allotment   the  Company  shall  provide  the
      Subscribers and Dresdner  Kleinwort Benson with certified copies of the
      Board resolution allotting the Subscription Shares.

5.4   Each Subscriber  severally  warrants and undertakes to the Company that
      the Subscription  Cash due from him is, upon this Agreement coming into
      effect,  held by N.M.  Rothschild & Sons Limited solely for the purpose
      of  paying  the  Subscription  Cash  pursuant  to  the  terms  of  this
      Agreement,  subject only to this Agreement  becoming  unconditional and
      not being terminated.

5.5   The  Directors  undertake  that,  subject to the  passing of all of the
      Resolutions, prior to Admission a board meeting of the Company shall be
      held at which, conditional upon Admission:

      5.5.1   the FHP Consultancy Agreement,  the Option Agreement and the
              Service  Agreement shall be executed and entered into by the
              Company;

      5.5.2   Mr  Baker shall be appointed a director of the Company and shall
              be appointed Executive Chairman;

      5.5.3   Mr L Rice shall resign as a director of the Company;

      5.5.4   the  Subscription  Shares and the  Placing  Shares  shall be
              allotted  and  issued in  accordance  with the terms of this
              Agreement and the Placing Agreement (respectively); and

      5.5.5   the Unapproved Option Scheme shall be adopted by the Company.

5.6   Each US Subscriber acknowledges and agrees that the Subscription Shares
      have not been registered under the United States Securities Act of 1933
      (the  "1933  Act") or the  securities  laws of any state of the  United
      States,  and are being offered and sold to the US Subscribers  pursuant
      to an exemption from  registration  contained in Regulation D under the
      1933 Act and  applicable  state law (and not  pursuant to  Regulation S
      under the 1933 Act). Consequently, the Subscription Shares to be issued
      to the US  Subscribers  shall be  "restricted  shares"  as that term is
      defined  in Rule  144  under  the  1933  Act,  and  each US  Subscriber
      understands and agrees that the Subscription Shares to be issued to the
      US  Subscribers  cannot be offered,  sold,  delivered,  transferred  or
      otherwise disposed of except pursuant to a registration statement under
      the 1933 Act and applicable  state law or in accordance with an opinion
      of counsel  acceptable to the Company that said  transaction  is exempt
      from  registration  under the 1933 Act and  applicable  state law. Each
      share  certificate  (including any successor share  certificate)  shall
      bear a legend as set forth below:

      Form of Legend

      These  shares  have  not  been  registered   under  the  United  States
      Securities  Act of 1933, as amended (the "1933 Act") or the  securities
      laws of any state of the  United  States.  Consequently,  these  shares
      cannot be offered,  sold, delivered,  transferred or otherwise disposed
      of except  pursuant to a registration  statement under the 1933 Act and
      applicable  state  law or in  accordance  with an  opinion  of  counsel
      acceptable  to  the  Company  that  said  transaction  is  exempt  from
      registration  under the 1933 Act and applicable  state law. The Company
      shall  not be  required  to  register  any  purported  sale,  delivery,
      transfer,  or other  disposition  that is contrary to the terms of this
      legend.

6.    Registration

      Upon  Admission,  the  Directors  shall  procure  that the Company will
      deliver to the  Subscribers or as they may direct the definitive  share
      certificates in the names of the Subscribers or also, in the case of Mr
      Baker FHP or also in the case of any Subscriber  which is an investment
      manager any fund managed by such  Subscriber or of such nominees of the
      Subscribers as the Subscribers shall specify and in such  denominations
      as the Subscribers shall specify in respect of the Subscription Shares.

7.       Company's and Directors' Further Obligations

7.1      Forthwith  on  the  execution  of  this  Agreement  the  Company 
         will  deliver  to  the  Subscribers:-

         7.1.1      one copy of the final  form of the  Prospectus  signed by
                    each  Director  (or his duly authorised attorney);

         7.1.2      one  executed  copy of each  Power  of  Attorney  and of
                    each  Responsibility Statement;

         7.1.3      one  copy of the  Verification  Notes  and  the  answers, 
                    annexures  and all supporting documentation thereto signed
                    by each Director; and

         7.1.4      one original signed copy of the New Facility and the
                    Security Deed;

7.2      The  Directors  and the  Company  undertake  to the  Subscribers  that,
         pending  this  Agreement  becoming  unconditional  in all  respects and
         subject  to  letters of  confidentiality  substantially  in the form as
         executed by Mr Baker and the financial  advisers to the  Subscribers in
         connection with the Proposals being executed and binding,  they will on
         request provide to the Subscribers,  their accountants,  solicitors and
         other  professional   advisers   authorised  by  the  Subscribers  such
         facilities  and  information  relating  to the Group  and its  affairs,
         including  access to its  books and  records,  as the  Subscribers  may
         reasonably  from  time  to time  require  and  will  consult  with  the
         Subscribers,  or such representatives and advisers as are designated by
         them for this purpose,  with respect to any action which may materially
         affect the business,  assets, trading profits or prospects of the Group
         taken as a whole.

8.       Fees and Expenses

         The  Company  hereby  undertakes  that  it will  pay all of its  costs,
         charges and expenses  (plus any VAT thereon) of and  incidental  to the
         Proposals  including in particular (but without limiting the foregoing)
         the application for Admission,  the costs of printing and  distributing
         the  Prospectus,  the  fees  of  the  London  Stock  Exchange  and  all
         accountancy,   legal  and  other  professional  fees  and  expenses  in
         connection with the Proposals  (including the legal fees of Wragge & Co
         in advising the Executive  Directors on their personal positions) up to
         but  not  exceeding   (without  the  prior   written   consent  of  the
         Subscribers) an aggregate of (pound)1.8 million.

9.       Announcements

9.1      Save as expressly contemplated  hereunder,  neither the Company nor any
         Director   shall  make  or   despatch   any  public   announcement   or
         communication   concerning   the  Group  or  in  connection   with  the
         Subscription  or the Placing which is or may be material in relation to
         the  Group,  the  Subscription  or  the  Placing  or the  issue  of the
         Subscription  Shares between the date of this Agreement and the date of
         Admission (both dates  inclusive)  without the prior written consent of
         Mr Baker as to the  content,  timing and  manner of making or  despatch
         thereof (such consent not to be unreasonably withheld or delayed). This
         restriction  does  not  apply  to a normal  trade  announcement  or any
         announcement or communication required by law, regulation,  the Code or
         the London Stock Exchange in respect of which it was not practicable in
         the circumstances,  having made all reasonable  efforts, to obtain such
         prior written consent.

9.2      The  Company  and  each  of  the  Executive  Directors  shall  use  all
         reasonable  endeavours to procure that each Group Company and employees
         of each Group Company and advisers to and agents of the Company observe
         the restriction set out in Clause 9.1 as if they were parties hereto.

10.      Warranties and Undertakings by the Company and Undertakings by the
         Directors

10.1     The Company  warrants to the Subscribers that the warranties set out in
         Schedule 5 are at the date hereof, and that warranty 23.2 will be as at
         Admission true and accurate.

10.2     For the  purpose  of  Clause  10.1,  each of the  warranties  shall  be
         qualified to the extent of the facts or information fairly disclosed in
         the documents listed in Schedule 4.

10.3     The warranties given in Clause 10.1 and Schedule 5 shall remain in full
         force and effect notwithstanding the completion of the Subscription and
         all other matters and  arrangements  referred to in or  contemplated by
         this Agreement.
          
10.4     Each  of the  Company  and the  Directors  severally  undertake  to the
         Subscribers insofar as they are able:

         10.4.1     not  to  cause  and to use  all  reasonable  endeavours not
                    to  permit any Specified Event;

         10.4.2     to give  notice  to the  Subscribers  of any  breach  of the
                    Warranties or any other provision of this  Agreement,  or of
                    the occurrence of any Specified  Event,  which shall come to
                    his or its knowledge prior to Admission.

10.5     The liability of the Company in respect of any claim in connection with
         any  of  the  Warranties  ("Relevant  Claim")  shall,  save  where  the
         liability  in  question  arises as a result of fraud on the part of any
         Group Company or any Group Company's  respective  directors,  officers,
         employees  or agents or where the  liability  in question  relates to a
         matter which has been  deliberately  concealed or withheld by any Group
         Company or any such person, be limited as follows:-

         10.5.1     the  aggregate  liability  of the Company in respect of this
                    Agreement  shall be limited to  (pound)15,000,000  (together
                    with all costs,  expenses and interest  incurred or suffered
                    by any of the Subscribers in connection therewith);

         10.5.2     the Company shall not be liable in respect of a Relevant
                    Claim unless:-

                    (a)       the  liability  of the  Company in respect of that
                              Relevant Claim  (ignoring any liability for costs,
                              expenses and interest) exceeds (pound)25,000;

                    (b)       the aggregate  liability of the Company in respect
                              of all Relevant  Claims  (excluding  any for which
                              liability is excluded by sub-paragraph  10.5.2(a))
                              exceeds (pound)250,000 in which case the Company's
                              liability  shall be the whole sum due and not just
                              the excess over (pound)250,000;

         10.5.3     the Company  shall have no liability in respect of any
                    Relevant  Claim unless  the  Subscribers  or any of them
                    shall  have  given  notice in writing to the  Company  of 
                    such  claim  (giving, to the extent reasonably practicable,
                    reasonable  details  of the claim or matter in respect of
                    which such claim is made) such  notice to be given not
                    later than  whichever  is the later of (a) the date nine
                    months after the date of this Agreement and (b) the date one
                    month after the  publication  of the  consolidated accounts
                    of the Group for the year ending 31 December 1998;

         10.5.4     all and any  liability  of the  Company  in  respect  of any
                    Relevant Claim  notified to it in accordance  with paragraph
                    10.5.3 shall (if such Relevant Claim has not previously been
                    satisfied,  settled or  withdrawn)  be  extinguished  on the
                    expiry of nine months from the date of such  notification of
                    the  Relevant  Claim unless the  Subscribers  or any of them
                    shall  within such period have issued and validly  served on
                    the Company proceedings in respect of such Relevant Claim;

         10.5.5     the Company  shall not be liable in respect of any  Relevant
                    Claim to the extent  that the loss  giving rise to the claim
                    is unconditionally and finally recovered by the Company from
                    another  person  other  than a  member  of the  Group or any
                    associated undertaking of the Group or any of the directors,
                    officers,  or  employees  of a Group  Company or  associated
                    undertaking of the Company;

         10.5.6     the  Company  shall not be liable in  respect  of any 
                    Relevant  Claim to the extent  that  the  subject  of the 
                    claim  has  been  or is  made  good or is otherwise 
                    compensated without cost to the Subscribers (or any of them)
                    or any Group  Company or  associated  undertaking  of the 
                    Company or any of the directors,   officers,   or employees
                    of  a  Group  Company  or  associated  undertaking  of the 
                    Company and should the Company pay to or for the benefit
                    of any  Subscriber  an amount in respect of any Relevant
                    Claim and any other  Subscriber  subsequently  receives 
                    from any  other  person  any  payment  in respect of the
                    matter giving rise to the Relevant Claim,  the Subscribers
                    shall  thereupon  pay  to  the  Company  and  amount  equal
                    to  the  payment received.  The  Subscriber's  shall not be
                    entitled  to  recover  damages or otherwise  obtain 
                    reimbursement or restitution more than once in respect of
                    the same loss;

         10.5.7     the Subscribers confirm that the Company shall not be liable
                    in  respect  of any  Relevant  Claim  to the  extent  of the
                    Subscriber's actual knowledge,  as a result of the review of
                    any written information, of any matter which would give rise
                    to a Relevant Claim.

11.      Indemnities

11.1     Subject to Clause 11.2 the Company  undertakes to the  Subscribers,  to
         keep each and every Subscriber  indemnified against all losses, claims,
         demands,  damages, costs, charges, expenses or liabilities (or actions,
         proceedings or investigations in respect thereof) which such Subscriber
         may suffer or incur or which may be made  against  such  Subscriber  or
         which arise directly or indirectly, out of or in connection with:-

         11.1.1     the issue and/or  publication  of the  Documents  and/or any
                    other documents relating to the Subscription which have been
                    authorised by or on behalf of the Company;

         11.1.2     any breach or alleged  breach by the Company or any of the 
                    Directors of this Agreement;

         11.1.3     the failure or alleged  failure by the Company or any of the
                    Directors to comply with any legal,  statutory or regulatory
                    requirement in relation to the Placing, the Subscription the
                    allotment and/or issue of any Placing Shares or Subscription
                    Shares  and any  transaction  or matter  referred  to in the
                    Documents

         together  with  the  properly  incurred  costs  and  expenses  of  such
         Subscriber in enforcing its rights under this Clause 11.

11.2     The obligations of the Company under clause 11.1 shall not apply to any
         liabilities,  actions,  costs,  charges,  expenses,  claims  or  losses
         suffered by a Subscriber to the extent that they are finally judicially
         determined  by a court of competent  jurisdiction  or are agreed by the
         Subscribers  to have  arisen  from or in  relation to any breach by the
         Subscribers  of their  obligations  under this  Agreement  or under any
         statutory or  regulatory  requirement  or arise from the  negligence or
         wilful default of any Subscriber.

11.3     All sums payable to any  Subscriber  under this clause 11 shall be paid
         free and clear of all deductions or  withholdings  unless the deduction
         or  withholding  is required  by law, in which event the person  making
         payment shall pay such additional amount as shall be required to ensure
         that the net  amount  received  by the  Subscriber  will equal the full
         amount  which would have been  received by it had no such  deduction or
         withholding  been  made.  If the  Inland  Revenue  or any other  taxing
         authority  in any  jurisdiction  brings into any charge to Tax (or into
         any  computation  of income,  profits or gains for the  purposes of any
         charge to Tax) any sum payable to any  Subscriber  under this Clause 11
         then the amount so payable  shall be grossed up by such  amount as will
         ensure that after  deduction of the Taxation so chargeable  there shall
         remain a sum  equal to the  amount  that  would  otherwise  be  payable
         (additional payments being made on demand as may be necessary).

12.      Representations and Warranties and Undertakings by the Subscribers

12.1     For the purposes of establishing  the entitlement of the US Subscribers
         to purchase Subscription Shares pursuant to an exemption under the 1933
         Act and  applicable  state law,  each of the US  Subscribers  severally
         represents and warrants as follows:

         12.1.1     The US  Subscriber  has had access to and  reviewed the 
                    Prospectus  and such  financial  and other  information 
                    regarding the Company as the US Subscriber deems  necessary
                    in respect of his or its  decision to acquire Subscription
                    Shares.  The US  Subscriber  has  had an  opportunity  to
                    ask  questions  and receive  answers  concerning  such 
                    matters  as he  deems  relevant.  The  US  Subscriber   has
                    reviewed  the  risk   factors  in  the   Prospectus,  and
                    acknowledges  that an  investment  in the  Company's shares
                    is a high  risk investment.  Nothing in this Clause  12.1.1
                    shall impair or qualify the full force and effect of the 
                    representations  warranties and other  provisions of
                    this Agreement and the Subscribers reliance thereon or
                    rights thereunder.

         12.1.2     The  US  Subscriber  is  an  accredited   investor  within
                    the  meaning  of  Regulation D under the 1933 Act, and has
                    such  knowledge  and  experience  in financial and business
                    matters as to be capable of  evaluating  the merits
                    and risks of an  investment  in  Subscription  Shares and
                    is able to bear the economic  risk  of  such   investment.
                    If  the  US  Subscriber  is  not  an  individual it has not
                    been formed for  purposes  of making this  investment.
                    If the US  Subscriber is an individual, he has specialised
                    knowledge and experience relating to the Company's industry.

         12.1.3     As  an  acquirer  in  an  intended   private   placement  of
                    Subscription  Shares that have not been registered under the
                    Act,  the US  Subscriber  is acquiring  Subscription  Shares
                    solely for his or its own  account and  Subscription  Shares
                    are not being acquired by US Subscribers  with a view to any
                    resale, distribution,  transfer or other disposition thereof
                    in violation of the 1933 Act.

         12.1.4     If the US Subscriber is an individual, he is resident in the
                    State indicated below next to his name. If the US Subscriber
                    is an entity, it is incorporated in the state indicated next
                    to its name and has its head  office in the state  indicated
                    next to its name.

               US Subscriber           State of Residence/Inc./Hdqtrs.

               Stephens Group Inc                 -    Arkansas/Arkansas
               Quilcap Corp.             -        Delaware/New York
               Oracle Partners L.P.      -        Delaware/New York
               Sidney Knafel           New York     -           -
               Rodman Moorhead III     New York     -           -
               Andrew Baker            New Jersey            -      -
               Kirby Cramer            Washington            -      -


12.2     Each US Subscriber acknowledges and agrees that the Subscription Shares
         issued  to it or him  may  only be  resold,  transferred  or  otherwise
         disposed of pursuant to a registration statement under the 1933 Act and
         applicable  state  law or in  accordance  with an  opinion  of  counsel
         satisfactory  to the  Company  that said  transaction  is  exempt  from
         registration under the 1933 Act and applicable state law.

12.3     Each  Subscriber  severally  warrants to the  Company  that he has full
         power and  authority  to enter into and perform his  obligations  under
         this  Agreement  which  will  constitute  binding  obligations  on such
         Subscriber in accordance with its terms upon coming into effect.

12.4     Each  Subscriber  that holds  Ordinary  Shares or  Huntingdon  ADSs (as
         defined in the Prospectus) undertakes not to vote at the EGM in respect
         of  Resolution  1 and not to accept  any  Placing  Shares  which may be
         offered  to such  Subscriber  under the Open  Offer (as  defined in the
         Prospectus).

12.5     Each of Andrew  Stafford-Deitsch and Gordon Grender severally represent
         and  warrant  to the  Company  that he is not a US Person as defined in
         Regulation S of the Securities and Exchange Commission.

12.6     The Company shall not be entitled to rescind this Agreement for any
         reason.

13.      Obligations to the Subscribers

13.1     The obligations of the Company to the Subscribers shall be binding on
         its successors.

13.2     Subject to Clause 10.5, any liability to the Subscribers  hereunder may
         in whole or in part be released,  compounded or compromised and time or
         indulgence may be given by the  Subscribers as regards any person under
         such liability without  prejudicing the Subscribers' rights against any
         other person under the same or a similar liability.

13.3     Subject to Clause 10.5, no neglect,  delay or indulgence on the part of
         any Relevant Person (as the case may be) in enforcing the Warranties or
         the  indemnities  set out in this  Agreement or in enforcing  any other
         term or  condition  of this  Agreement  shall be  construed as a waiver
         thereof and no single or partial  exercise of any right or remedy under
         this  Agreement  will  preclude  or restrict  the  further  exercise or
         enforcement  of any such  right or  remedy.  The  rights  and  remedies
         provided in this  Agreement  are  cumulative  and not  exclusive of any
         other rights and remedies (whether provided by law or otherwise).

13.4     Each of the Directors  hereby agrees that, if and to the extent that he
         incurs  any  liability  under  this  Agreement,  he will  not  seek any
         contribution  or seek to recover  any sum from the Company or any other
         member of the Group or any of their officers or employees in respect of
         such  liability,  provided that this shall not preclude a Director from
         recovering under any insurance policy maintained by the Company for his
         benefit pursuant to Section 310 of the Act.

13.5     The Company and the  Directors  confirm that, in addition to any remedy
         or right of action  available  under this  Agreement,  the  Subscribers
         shall be entitled (as allottees of new Ordinary Shares or otherwise) to
         the same remedies and rights of action  against the Company  and/or the
         Directors to the same extent as any other person acquiring any Ordinary
         Shares on the basis of the Documents and as referred to in Recital (E),
         but not otherwise.

14.      Time of the Essence

         Any time, date or period referred to in any provision of this Agreement
         may be  extended  by  agreement  between the parties but as regards any
         time,  date or period  originally  fixed or any time, date or period so
         extended time shall be of the essence.

15.      Notices

15.1     Any notice or other communication  required to be given or served under
         or in connection  with this Agreement  shall be in writing and shall be
         sufficiently given or served if delivered or sent:-

         15.1.1     in the case of the Company to its registered  office for the
                    time being  marked "For the urgent  attention of the Company
                    Secretary";

         15.1.2     in the case of any Director to his address  stated in Part A
                    or Part B of  Schedule 1 or to such other  address as may be
                    notified in writing for the  purposes of this  Agreement  to
                    the  party   giving   or   service   the   notice  or  other
                    communication;

         15.1.3     in the case of the  Subscribers  to Mr Baker marked "For the
                    urgent attention of Mr Baker".

15.2     Any such notice or other  communication  shall be  delivered by hand or
         sent by fax or pre-paid first class post. If sent by fax such notice or
         communication shall conclusively be deemed to have been given or served
         at the time of despatch,  (provided  that a  confirmatory  copy of such
         notice is sent by post in accordance with this Clause 15.2). If sent by
         post such notice or communication  shall conclusively be deemed to have
         been  received  48 hours from the time of posting or, if to an overseas
         address 5 Business Days from the time of posting.

15.3     Any notice given by the Subscribers  under Clause 2.2 may also be given
         by Mr Baker to any Director  either  personally  or by telephone (to be
         confirmed immediately in writing) and shall have immediate effect.

16.      Counterparts

         This Agreement may be entered into in any number of counterparts and by
         the  parties  to it on  separate  counterparts,  each of which  when so
         executed and delivered shall be an original,  but all the  counterparts
         shall together  constitute one and the same instrument.  This Agreement
         shall be of no effect  unless  and until at least one  counterpart  has
         been signed by or on behalf of each party.

17.      Whole Agreement and Variation

         This  Agreement  contains  the  whole  agreement  between  the  parties
         relating to the subject  matter of this  Agreement  and no variation of
         this Agreement shall be effective  unless signed by or on behalf of the
         parties to this Agreement.



<PAGE>


18.      Invalidity

         If any provision in this Agreement shall be held to be illegal, invalid
         or  unenforceable,  in whole or in part, under any enactment or rule of
         law, such  provision or part shall to that extent be deemed not to form
         part of this Agreement but the legality, validity and enforceability of
         the remainder of this Agreement shall not be affected.

19.      Authority to Deliver

         The  signature  or sealing of this  document by or on behalf of a party
         shall  constitute  an  authority  to the  solicitors,  or any  agent or
         employee of the  solicitors  acting for that party in  connection  with
         this  document,  to date and  deliver  it as a deed on  behalf  of that
         party.

20.      Governing Law and Submission to Jurisdiction

20.1 This  Agreement  shall be  governed by and  construed  in  accordance  with
English law.

20.2     All the  parties  irrevocably  agree that the courts of England  are to
         have exclusive  jurisdiction to settle any disputes which may arise out
         of or in connection with this Agreement.

IN WITNESS  whereof this Agreement has been duly executed by or on behalf of the
Subscribers  and executed and delivered as a deed by the Company and each of the
Directors, the day and year first before written.


<PAGE>


                                   SCHEDULE 1

                                     Part A
                             The Executive Directors


Name                                                 Address

Christopher Frederick Cliffe        )       Huntingdon Life Sciences Group plc
Martyn Sandford                     )       Woolley Road
Dr Cameron MacKay Macdonald         )       Alconbury
                                                     Huntingdon  PE18 6ES



                                     Part B
                           The Non-Executive Directors


Name                                                 Address

Roger Adrian Pinnington             )       Huntingdon Life Sciences Group plc
Professor John Caldwell             )       Woolley Road
Ladislas Oscar Rice                 )       Alconbury
                                                     Huntingdon  PE18 6ES


<PAGE>

<TABLE>
                                   SCHEDULE 2

                                 The Subscribers
<CAPTION>

Name                          Address                         Subscription      Aggregate
                                                              Shares            Subscription
                                                                                Price
                                                                                (pound)
<S>                          <C>                             <C>               <C>

Andrew Baker                  Focused Healthcare              12,000,000        1,500,000
                              Partnership Limited
                              c/o New World Trust Corp
                              Rue de la Pelisserie
                              Case Postale 3501
                              1211 Geneva 3
                              Switzerland

Stephens Group, Inc           111 Center Street                36,000,000       4,500,000
                              Little Rock
                              Arkensas 72201
                              USA

Quilcap Corp.                 375 Park Ave                    27,333,333         3,416,667
                              Suite 1404
                              New York
                              New York 10952
                              USA

Oracle Partners LP            712 Fifth Ave                   23,333,333         2,916,667
                              45th Floor
                              New York
                              New York 10019
                              USA

Sidney Knafel                 126 E 56th Street               8,000,000          1,000,000
                              New York
                              New York 10022
                              USA

Rodman Moorhead III           E.M. Warburg Pincer             4,666,667           583,333
                                & Lowe
                              456 Lexington Avenue
                              New York
                              USA

Kirby Cramer                  Keystone Capital                4,666,667           583,333
                              2420 Carillon Point
                              Kirkcrome
                              Washington 83033
                              USA

Andrew Stafford Deitsch       The Old Surgery                 2,000,000           250,000
                              Ingatestone
                              Essex  CM7 9DU

Gordon Grender                The Old Surgery                 2,000,000           250,000
                              Ingatestone
                              Essex  CM7 9DH
</TABLE>


<PAGE>


                                   SCHEDULE 3

                          Documents in the agreed form


Document                            Marked

Application Form                    A
Bridging Agreement                  B
FHP Consultancy Agreement           C
FOREX Agreement                     D
Nat West Letter                     E
New Facility                        F
Ciba Geigy Agreement                G
Option Agreement                    H
Placing Agreement                   I
Powers of Attorney                  J
Press Announcement                  K
Prospectus                          L
Proxy                               M
Responsibility Statements           N
Security Deeds                      O
Service Agreements                  P
Unapproved Option
         Scheme Rules               Q
Verification Notes                  R
Working Capital Report              S


<PAGE>

                                   SCHEDULE 4

                               Clause 10 Documents


1.       The Prospectus and all documents referred to Part VI of the Prospectus.

2.       The Ciba Geigy Agreement.

3.       The Arthur Andersen Working Capital Report including transmittal
         letter.

4.       All Documents named in Schedule 3.

5.       The Phase I Environmental  Assessment of Pharmaco LSR at Eye,  Suffolk,
         England  dated  May  1994 as  carried  out by  Environmental  Resources
         Management.

6.       The  Environmental   Review  dated  January  1998  in  respect  of  the
         Huntingdon  Research  Centre at Woolley  Road,  Alconbury,  Huntingdon,
         Cambridgeshire as prepared by Aspinwall & Company.

7.       The  Environmental  Review of the Stamford  Lodge,  Wilmslow,  Cheshire
         dated January 1997 as carried out by Aspinwall & Company.

8.       The Phase I  Environmental  Site  Assessment  Report of Pharmaco LSR at
         Mettlers Road, East Millstone, New Jersey, USA dated August 30, 1995 as
         prepared for Aspinwall & Company.

9.       Arthur  Andersen  Working Capital Comfort Letter in connection with the
         Working Capital Statement by Huntingdon Life Sciences Group plc.

10.      Arthur Andersen letter in relation to significant changes in financial
         position.

11.      Arthur Andersen letter re statement of indebtedness.


<PAGE>

                                   SCHEDULE 5

                                   Warranties


Accuracy and contents of documents

1.       All information  (other than relating to the Subscribers,  their
         immediate  families and  persons,  trusts and companies  connected
         with the  Subscribers)  contained in the Press Announcement  and in
         the  Prospectus  and in the other  public  filings  of the  Company
         including  filings with the United States Securities and Exchange 
         Commission  (together the  "Public  Filings")  is in  accordance with
         the  facts and all  statements  of fact contained in the Press 
         Announcement,  in the  Prospectus and the Public Filings is true
         and  accurate  and not  misleading.  The  Company  is  current 
         and timely in its Public  Filings.

2.       All  forecasts,  estimates  and  expressions  of opinion,  intention or
         expectation  made by the Company or the  Directors and contained in the
         Press  Announcement  and/or  in the  Prospectus  are fair and  honestly
         given,  expressed or held, have been made after due and careful enquiry
         and  consideration,  are  fairly  based on facts  which are  within the
         knowledge of each relevant Group Company and the Directors and are made
         on reasonable grounds.

3.       There are no facts or considerations known or which could on reasonable
         enquiry  have been known to any Group  Company or any of the  Directors
         which are not disclosed in the Press  Announcement or in the Prospectus
         which by their omission would or might reasonably be considered to:

         3.1        materially affect the import of the information contained
                    therein; or

         3.2        make  any  statement   therein   (whether  of  fact  or 
                    opinion)   false  or  misleading; or

         3.3        invalidate  or  materially  qualify  any  assumption  made
                    in  support of any statement therein (whether of fact or
                    opinion); or

         3.4        be material for disclosure to a reasonable purchaser of
                    Subscription Shares.

4.       The Prospectus  contains all such  information as, having regard to the
         matters  referred  to in section  146 of the FSA,  investors  and their
         professional  advisers would reasonably require,  and reasonably expect
         to find in the  Prospectus,  for the  purpose  of  making  an  informed
         assessment of the assets and liabilities,  financial position,  profits
         and losses and  prospects  of the Group and of the rights  attaching to
         the Placing Shares and the Subscription Shares.

5.       The Prospectus  contains all particulars  and information required by,
         and the issue of the  Subscription  Shares and the issue and
         publication of the  Prospectus  complies in all respects  with, the
         Act, the FSA, the Listing  Rules,  the rules and  regulations of
         the London Stock  Exchange,  the New York Stock Exchange,  the United
         States  Securities and  Exchange  Commission,  the Code all  other 
         relevant  laws and  regulations  in the United  Kingdom and elsewhere 
         and all  agreements to which any member of the Group is a  party  or
         by which  any  member  of the  Group  is  bound  and,  without 
         limiting  the generality  of the  foregoing,  there are no matters 
         other than those  disclosed in the Prospectus  or  otherwise disclosed
         in writing to the London  Stock  Exchange  and the Subscribers  which
         the Executive  Directors  are aware  should be taken into account by
         the London Stock Exchange in considering the application for Admission.

6.       All statements  made or approved by the Company in connection  with any
         application to the London Stock Exchange for certain  information to be
         omitted  from  the  Prospectus  are  true  and  accurate  and  are  not
         misleading  and there are no facts which have not been disclosed to the
         London Stock Exchange in connection  therewith  which by their omission
         make any such  statements  misleading or are material for disclosure in
         connection therewith.

7.       All  statements of fact contained in any document or  announcement 
         issued or made by or on behalf of the Company to its  shareholders, 
         or the press since 31 December 1997 were  when  made,  and  save to
         the extent  corrected  in the  Prospectus,  remain  true  and
         accurate and not  misleading  and all  forecasts  and  estimates and
         all  statements of opinion,  intention and expectation  contained 
         therein were made on reasonable  grounds after  due  and  proper 
         consideration  and,  having  regard  to  all  information  then
         available  to the Company and the  Directors,  all such  forecasts 
         and  estimates  have either  been met or continue to be based on fair
         and reasonable  assumptions after due and proper  consideration of all
         information now known to them and the Company and the Directors
         continue to hold the opinions,  intentions and expectations  therein
         expressed after due and proper consideration of all information now
         known to them.

8.       Verification

         The  replies to the  Verification  Notes have been  approved by persons
         having appropriate  knowledge or responsibility to enable them properly
         to provide  such  replies and all such  replies have been given in good
         faith and are true and  accurate  and not  misleading  and the opinions
         attributed  to the  Directors  therein are honestly held and are fairly
         based on facts within the knowledge of the Directors.

9.       Accounts

9.1      The Accounts:

         9.1.1      have been prepared in accordance with the Act and (except to
                    the extent (if any) disclosed  therein)  generally  accepted
                    accounting principles,  practices and standards consistently
                    applied;

         9.1.2      on a  consolidated  basis  give a true and fair  view of the
                    state of affairs of the Group as at the end of, and of their
                    profits  (or  losses)  and cash  flow for the year  ended 31
                    December 1997;

         9.1.3      fairly set out the assets,  liabilities and reserves of the
                    Group and either make  proper   provision  for,  or  where 
                    appropriate  in  accordance  with generally  accepted 
                    accounting  standards,  include a note in respect of all
                    liabilities or commitments,  whether,  actual,  deferred or
                    contingent of the
                    Group as at the relevant  dates and in  particular,  make
                    adequate  provision for, or where  appropriate  include 
                    proper  disclosure,  in either case,  in accordance   with
                    generally   accepted   accounting   standards,   of   all
                    liabilities,  whether actual, deferred,  contingent or
                    disputed, of the Group  as at relevant dates;

9.2      the Interim Results have been properly compiled on the accounting bases
         and assumptions  consistent with or not materially different from those
         adopted in the preparation of the Accounts and of corresponding interim
         results of the Company and its  subsidiary  undertakings  published for
         the  six-month  period  ended  30 June  1997.  All  statements  of fact
         contained in the  Chairman's  statement in respect of and  accompanying
         the Interim Results  concerning the financial and trading  position and
         prospects of the Group were true and accurate  and not  misleading  and
         all expressions of opinion,  intention or expectation  contained in the
         Interim  Results  concerning  the  financial  and trading  position and
         prospects of the Group were honestly given,  expressed or held and have
         been the subject of due care and  attention  and were  fairly  based on
         facts within the  knowledge of the Company and the  Directors  and were
         made on reasonable grounds, after due and proper consideration.

10.      Post Balance Sheet Events

         Since 31 December 1997:

10.1    each Group has carried on its business in the ordinary and usual course;

10.2     there has been no  material  depletion  in the net  assets of any Group
         Company and there has been no material  adverse change in the financial
         or trading position or prospects of any Group Company;

10.3     no Group Company has acquired or disposed of or agreed to acquire or to
         dispose  of any  business,  company  or  asset  which is  material  for
         disclosure;

10.4     other than those sums received from the joint  administrator of Travers
         Morgan  Group  plc  and  except  as  disclosed  in the  Prospectus,  no
         dividends or other  distributions  have been declared,  made or paid by
         any Group Company; and

10.5     no Group  Company has incurred any material  liability  for taxation of
         whatsoever nature otherwise than in the ordinary course of business.



<PAGE>


11.      Working Capital

         All  information  requested  from the Company and the  Directors by the
         Accountants  for the purposes of the Working  Capital  Report was, when
         provided,  true and accurate and no  information  has been withheld the
         absence of which would make misleading any of the information provided.
         The  Working   Capital  Report  which  has  been  reported  on  by  the
         Accountants  has been  prepared  with all due care and attention by the
         Company and the Directors in accordance  with the  accounting  policies
         normally  adopted by the Group and on the basis of the  assumptions set
         out in the Working  Capital  Report and such  assumptions  are fair and
         reasonable  and are based on beliefs  reasonably  and honestly held and
         there are no facts known or which could on reasonable enquiry have been
         known to any Group Company or the  Directors  which have not been taken
         into account in the preparation of the Working Capital Report and which
         could  reasonably be expected to have an effect on the Working  Capital
         Report.

12.      Acceleration of indebtedness

         No  circumstances  have  arisen,  or to  the  best  of  the  knowledge,
         information  and  belief  of the  Executive  Directors  and  any  Group
         Company,  may arise such that any person is, or will, or would with the
         giving of notice  and/or lapse of time and/or the  satisfaction  of any
         other  condition  and/or  compliance  with any other  formality  become
         entitled to require  payment before its stated maturity of, or security
         for,  any  indebtedness  in the nature of  borrowing  or any  guarantee
         thereof  or any  mortgage,  security  grant or  interest  of any  Group
         Company which has not been  satisfied in full and no person to whom any
         indebtedness  in the nature of borrowing of any Group  Company which is
         payable on demand is owed has demanded or to the best of the  knowledge
         information and belief of the Directors and any Group Company presently
         proposes to demand  payment of, or security for, the same, and there is
         no reason to suppose that any  overdraft  facility of and Group Company
         will be, or is likely to be, withdrawn.

13.      Property

13.1     The  Properties  are all the  properties  owned by any Group Company or
         occupied by any Group  Company  for the  purpose of its  business or in
         respect  of which the  Company  has any actual or  potential  liability
         including (without  limitation) any potential  liability as a tenant or
         former tenant of, or guarantor in respect of, any  leasehold  property,
         which is material in the context of the Placing, or the Subscription or
         the Group.

13.2     The Company and each Group Company has good and marketable title to all
         of the Properties and marketable  title to all personal  property owned
         by each of them, in each case free and clear of any security interests,
         liens, encumbrances, equities, claims and other defects that, singly or
         in the aggregate,  could be material;  and any of the  Properties  held
         under lease by the Company or any Group  Company are held under  valid,
         subsisting and enforceable  leases,  without  exceptions that and which
         have not been breached in any respect which could be material.

14.      Insurances

         The Group is insured to  adequate  levels  against  all risks  commonly
         insured against by persons  carrying on the same or similar  businesses
         as those  carried on by the Group and against all risks  against  which
         the Group might  reasonably  be  expected  to insure in the  particular
         circumstances of the businesses carried on by each member thereof,  all
         material  insurances  are in full  force and effect and are not void or
         voidable,  other than the  pending  claim in  approximately  the sum of
         (pound)500,000  in respect of physical  flood  damage on or about April
         1998  at the  Huntingdon  site  and the  proposed  claim  for  business
         interruption  in respect of such damage there is no material  insurance
         claim  pending,  threatened  or  outstanding  against any member of the
         Group and all premiums due in respect of material  insurances have been
         duly paid.

15.      Environmental Matters

         Each Group  Company  has so far as each  Group  Company is aware at all
         times complied with all laws,  regulations and orders concerning health
         and safety matters, the protection of the environment and the emission,
         discharge,  leakage,  disposal,   transportation,   spill,  release  or
         threatened release (collectively "Release") of materials in or into the
         environment (collectively  "Environmental Matters"). Each Group Company
         is in  possession  of all relevant  consents,  or other  authorisations
         (together the "Consents") with respect to all Environmental Matters and
         has, so far as the Directors and each Group Company is aware,  complied
         with the conditions therein, and there are, so far as the Directors and
         each Group  Company is aware,  no facts or  circumstances  entitling  a
         regulatory  agency or other authority to revoke,  vary or not renew any
         of the Consents;  no Group Company is, so far as the Directors and each
         Group Company is aware,  required to make any material investment under
         the  terms  of  any of  the  Consents  or  the  terms  of any  relevant
         legislation  or  regulation  in order to renew any of the  Consents  or
         maintain the same in full force and effect.

16.      For the  purposes  of  this  paragraph  "Dangerous  Substances"  means
         any  natural  or artificial  substance  (whether  in the  form of a
         solid,  liquid,  gas or  vapour)  the generation,  transportation, 
         storage,  treatment,  use or  disposal  of which  (whether
         alone or in combination  with any other  substance)  gives rise to a
         substantial risk or causing harm to man or to any other  living 
         organism or of causing  material  damage to the  environment or public
         health or  welfare  and  "waste"  means any waste  which is
         covered  by  Part  II of  the  Environmental  Protection  Act  1990
         or  any  pollutant, contaminant,  chemical,  or  industrial  hazardous
         or toxic material or waste for which liability or standards of conduct
         are imposed  under  applicable  laws,  regulations  or
         orders concerning Environmental Matters.

16.1     So far as each Group  Company and the  Directors  are aware,  there has
         been no material Release of any Dangerous  Substances or waste into the
         ground at the  Properties,  any adjacent or nearby property or into the
         atmosphere or into any controlled waters;

16.2     So far as each Group Company and the Directors are aware, there has not
         been  by any  Group  Company,  or in or on any  of the  Properties  any
         illegal  generation,  use,  treatment,   recycling,  keeping,  storage,
         discharge,  transportation or disposal or other Release of any waste or
         Dangerous Substances.

16.3     So far as each Group Company and the  Directors are aware,  none of the
         Group  Companies is subject to any  judicial,  administrative  or other
         proceeding,   order,   judgment,   decree  or  settlement  alleging  or
         addressing  a violation of or liability  under any law,  regulation  or
         order concerning Environmental Matters; and

16.4     None of the Group  Companies  has  received any notice or claim to the
         effect that it is or may be liable  to any  governmental  entity  or
         any  other  person as a result of the Release or threatened  Release
         of any Dangerous  Substances or waste.  None of the Group
         Companies has sent or arranged for the disposal of any  Dangerous 
         Substance or waste to any disposal  site that (a) is  undergoing, or
         to the knowledge of the Directors or any Group  Company  could 
         reasonably  be  expected to  undergo,  remedial  action or (b) is
         listed or proposed for listing on the National  Priorities  List
         pursuant to laws of the United States of America.

17.      Pensions

         Save to the extent  disclosed in the Accounts,  all amounts  payable by
         any Group Company to the pension schemes disclosed in the Accounts have
         been paid in full and all sums for which any Group Company  accounts to
         such  scheme on behalf of its  employees  have been paid to such scheme
         and the scheme  remains in operation and effect in accordance  with its
         terms.

18.      Save as disclosed or provided for in the Accounts,  no Group Company is
         paying or is under  any  liability  (actual  or  contingent)  to pay or
         secure  (other  than  by  payment  of  employers'  contributions  under
         national  insurance  or social  security  legislation),  any pension or
         other benefit on retirement, death or disability or the attainment of a
         specified age or on the  completion  of a specified  number of years of
         service.

19.      Corporate Capacity

         Each Group Company has been duly incorporated, has full corporate power
         and authority to carry on its activities in the ordinary  course of its
         business,  has obtained all licences,  permissions,  authorisations and
         consents  required  for  the  carrying  on of  its  business  and  such
         licences,  permissions,  authorisations  and consents are in full force
         and  effect in all  material  respects  and there are no  circumstances
         known to the Company or any of the Executive  Directors  which indicate
         that any of such licences, permissions,  authorisations or consents may
         be revoked or not renewed,  in whole or in part, in the ordinary course
         of events.



<PAGE>


20.      Validity of Agreements

         No Group  Company nor any  Executive  Director has any knowledge of the
         invalidity of or grounds for  rescission,  avoidance or  repudiation of
         any agreement or other  transaction to which a Group Company is a party
         and which is  material  to the  business  or the  financial  or trading
         position or  prospects  of the Group and no Group  Company has received
         notice of any intention to terminate or not to renew any such agreement
         or repudiate or disclaim  any such  transaction;  for this purpose "any
         agreement  which is material to the business or the financial  position
         or prospects of the Company" includes,  without limitation,  agreements
         with suppliers and with clients.

21.      Licences and Authorisations

         Each Group  Company has carried on and is carrying on its  business and
         operations in accordance  with all  applicable  laws,  regulations  and
         bylaws and all statutory, municipal,  governmental,  quasi governmental
         and regulatory and landlords' and other licences, consents, permits and
         authorities   necessary  or  desirable  for  the  carrying  on  of  the
         businesses and operations of each Group Company,  as previously carried
         on and as now carried on,  have been  obtained  and are (or were at the
         relevant time) valid and  subsisting  and all conditions  applicable to
         any such  licence,  consent,  permit  or  authority  have  been and are
         complied with.

22.      Without prejudice to the generality of paragraph 21:-

         22.1       all  establishments  within the  meaning of Section 6 of the
                    Animals (Scientific Procedures) Act 1986 or that are subject
                    to or regulated  by the Animal  Welfare  Regulations  of the
                    United States  Department of  Agriculture  ("USDA") that are
                    owned or operated by any Group  Company or on its behalf are
                    the subject of a valid current Certificate of Designation or
                    similarly applicable  certificate or licence under USDA ("US
                    Certificate") in the name of a suitably  qualified  employee
                    or director;

         22.2       all  Certificates  of  Designation  as  referred  to in 22.1
                    above, correctly identify each premises, building or room in
                    which  scientific  procedures  within  the  meaning  of  the
                    Animals  (Scientific  Procedures)  Act  1986 or USDA  Animal
                    Welfare Regulations are performed ;

         22.3       all regulated  procedures  within the meaning of the Animals
                    (Scientific  Procedures)  Act 1986 performed by or on behalf
                    of any Group Company are  performed in  compliance  with the
                    provisions of the Animals  (Scientific  Procedures) Act 1986
                    or so far as relevant USDA Animal Welfare  Regulations,  the
                    terms of any  applicable  Certificate  of  Designation or US
                    Certificate,  project  licence,  personal  licence  or other
                    authorisation   required  by  law  and  all  relevant  Group
                    Companies  are in  possession  of all such project  licenses
                    required for the purposes of the business of such company;

         22.4       all animals  which are subject to  regulated  procedures  as
                    referred to in 22.3 above and which are animals specified in
                    Schedule 2 of the Animals  (Scientific  Procedures) Act 1986
                    or USDA Animal Welfare  Regulations are bred by or purchased
                    by a Group Company  carrying out such procedures or on whose
                    behalf such  procedures  are carried out for the purposes of
                    such  procedures  and if bred are so bred at  establishments
                    which are the  subject  of a valid  current  Certificate  of
                    Designation   as  required   by  the   Animals   (Scientific
                    Procedures) Act 1986;

         22.5       all 16 conditions imposed on the Group by the UK Home Office
                    on 24th July 1997 were  complied with fully by 30th November
                    1997 and so far as the  Directors  and each Group Company is
                    aware all Group  Companies to which they apply have complied
                    with such conditions  continuously  and continue to do so at
                    the date hereof;

         22.6       So far as the Directors and each Group Company is aware, all
                    Group  Companies   subject  to  inspection  under  the  Good
                    Laboratory  Practice  Regulations 1997 (1997 SI 654) and all
                    "premises"  operated by them to which such Regulations apply
                    comply in all relevant  aspects with the  principles of good
                    laboratory  practice  as  set  out  in  Schedule  1 to  such
                    Regulations ;

         22.7       the settlement  dated 30 March 1998 between  Huntingdon Life
                    Sciences   Inc  and  USDA  is  in  full  force  and  effect,
                    Huntingdon Life Sciences Inc is in full compliance therewith
                    and there are so far as the Directors and each Group Company
                    is aware no USDA investigations pending or threatened.

23.      Defaults

23.1     No event has occurred or is subsisting or to the best of the knowledge,
         information  and belief of the  Executive  Directors is about to occur,
         which  constitutes  or  results  in, or would with the giving of notice
         and/or  lapse of time and/or the  satisfaction  of any other  condition
         and/or  compliance with any other formality  constitute or result in, a
         default  or the  acceleration  or  breach of any  obligation  under any
         agreement,  instrument or  arrangement  to which any Group Company is a
         party or by which it or any of its  properties,  revenues or assets are
         bound or in the  infringement by any Group Company of any  intellectual
         property  rights  held by third  parties and which  would,  in any such
         case,  have a  material  adverse  effect  on the  business,  assets  or
         prospects of the Group.

23.2     No Default or Default  Occurrence  (as defined in the New Facility) has
         occurred and neither the Company nor the  Directors  are aware that any
         Default or Default  Occurrence  will or may  reasonably  be expected to
         occur after the date hereof,  as a result of or in connection  with the
         Proposals or otherwise.



<PAGE>


24.      Material Contracts

         No Group  Company is a party to, any  contract or arrangement which is
         material in the context of the Group, and which:-

         24.1       was entered into otherwise than by way of a bargain at
                    arm's length; or

         24.2       is of a loss making  nature (that is,  likely to result in a
                    loss  to  the  relevant   Group  Company  on  completion  of
                    performance).

25.      Insolvency

         No Group  Company  has taken any action  nor have any other  steps been
         taken or legal  proceedings  started or so far as each Group Company or
         the Executive  Directors are aware  threatened  against a Group Company
         for  its  administration,   winding-up  or  provisional  winding-up  or
         dissolution or for it to enter into any  arrangement or composition for
         the  benefit  of  creditors,  or for  the  appointment  of a  receiver,
         administrator,  administrative receiver,  trustee or similar officer of
         any of its  properties,  revenues,  undertakings or assets nor have any
         orders  been  made  for  any  of  the   foregoing   and  no  events  or
         circumstances  similar or analogous to any of those referred to in this
         paragraph 25 have occurred,  subsist or so far as each Group Company or
         the Executive Directors are aware are contemplated in any jurisdiction.

26.      Litigation/Judgements

         No Group  Company  nor any  Director  nor any  person  for whom a Group
         Company  is or is likely to be liable  (vicariously  or  otherwise)  is
         engaged or  involved  in or has during the twelve  months  prior to the
         date  hereof  been  involved  in  any  legal,   arbitration   or  other
         proceedings which, individually or collectively,  is or are of material
         importance to the Group or which could adversely  affect the Placing or
         the Subscription, no such proceedings are threatened or pending nor, to
         the best of the knowledge,  information and belief of the Directors and
         each Group  Company  are there  circumstances  which are likely to give
         rise to any such  proceedings;  for this  purpose  "other  proceedings"
         includes  any  civil or  criminal  proceedings  and any  action  by any
         governmental,  public or regulatory authority which did or could result
         in public  censure or the  imposition  of any fines,  payments or other
         liability.

27.      There is no outstanding judgement,  decree,  arbitral award or decision
         of any court,  tribunal,  arbitrator or governmental agency against any
         Group  Company  or against  any  person  for whom any Group  Company is
         vicariously  liable which  individually  or  collectively  is or are of
         material significance to the Group.

28.      Share Capital and Directors

         Save as disclosed in the  Prospectus,  there are in force no options or
         other agreements to which any Group Company is party which call for the
         issue of, or accord to any  person  the right to call for the issue of,
         any shares or other securities of any Group Company.

29.      Following Admission,  none of the shareholders of the Company will have
         any rights, in their capacity as such, in relation to the Company other
         than as set out in the Articles of Association of the Company.

30.      The  Directors  are all the  directors  of the  Company and there is no
         other  person who is or could be deemed to be a shadow  director of the
         Company within the meaning of the Act.

31.      The  Subscription  Shares will, upon allotment be free from all claims,
         charges, liens, encumbrances and equities whatsoever and will rank pari
         passu in all respect with the existing  Ordinary  Shares  including the
         right to receive all dividends and other distributions declared made or
         paid after the date of Admission.

32.      Subject  to  Admission,  and  all  necessary  resolutions  of  the
         Company  and  of the Directors becoming  unconditional  in accordance
         with their terms,  the Company and the Directors  have, or will have
         power and  authority to allot and issue the  Subscription  Shares and
         the  Placing  Shares and to effect the  Subscription  and the  Placing
         in the manner  proposed and to enter into and perform  this Agreement,
         the Placing  Agreement and the other  agreements  and  documents 
         referred  to herein to be  executed by any of them  and  all
         arrangements   relating   to  the   Proposals,   without   any further
         authorisation,  sanction  or consent  by members of the  Company or
         any class of them or  any other  person  and,  subject  as  aforesaid,
         there is no  authorisation,  approval, consent or licence  required 
         by the Company  for the issue of the  Subscription  Shares
         and the Placing Shares,  the entry into and  performance of this
         Agreement,  the Placing Agreement and the other  agreements  and
         documents  referred to herein to be executed by  any of  them  or to 
         effect the  Proposals  which  has  not  been  unconditionally  and
         irrevocably obtained and remains and will at all times remain in full
         force and effect.

33.      Subject to Admission,  the issue of the Subscription  Shares and of the
         Placing   Shares  and  Admission   will  not  exceed  or  infringe  any
         restrictions or the terms of any contract,  obligation or commitment by
         or  binding  upon any Group  Company  or result  in the  imposition  or
         variation of any rights or obligations of any Group Company.

34. The facts set out in the Recitals to this Agreement are true and accurate.

35.      Intellectual Property

         Each Group Company has taken all steps reasonably  necessary to protect
         all intellectual property rights which are held by or which are used by
         each Group  Company and which are  material to its  business;  all such
         rights which are capable of  registration  have been registered and all
         fees payable in respect of such registration have been paid; each Group
         Company has the  unencumbered  sole legal and  beneficial  title to all
         intellectual  property  rights which are used in or which are necessary
         for carrying on the business of that company,  or has a licence to such
         rights for their  duration,  which licence is in full force and effect,
         is not  subject  to a notice of  termination,  and so far as each Group
         Company or the  Executive  Directors are aware there are no grounds for
         terminating such licence; the carrying on of the business of each Group
         Company  does  not,so far as each Group  Company or the  Directors  are
         aware,  infringe and has not infringed any intellectual property rights
         of any third  party and so far as each Group  Company or the  Executive
         Directors are aware no third party has the right to bring an action for
         passing off or for breach of confidence against any Group Company.  For
         the purpose of this paragraph  "intellectual property rights" means all
         inventions  (whether  patentable  or  not),  patents,  utility  models,
         designs (both  registered and unregistered and including rights in semi
         conductor topographics),  copyright,  database right, trade and service
         marks (both  registered and  unregistered)  together with all rights to
         the grant of and applications for the same, corresponding applications,
         re-issues,  extensions,  divisions  and  continuations  thereof and all
         similar or analogous rights throughout the world.

36.      Conflicts

         The Prospectus  contains all information  required by the Listing Rules
         concerning  conflicts  of interest  between  any Group  Company and any
         Director or any company of which any Director is a director or in which
         he has a material interest.

37.      Taxation

         Each Group Company has, within any applicable time limit, duly made and
         filed all  returns,  reports and forms,  given all notices and supplied
         all other  information  required  to be made,  given or supplied to any
         Taxation  Authority for periods up to and  including 31 December  1997,
         and all such  returns,  notices  and  information  are  correct  in all
         material  respects and were made on a proper basis and no Group Company
         is involved in any dispute  with, or subject to any  investigation  by,
         any Taxation  Authority  which would be material for  disclosure in the
         Prospectus  and, so far as the Directors are aware,  there are no facts
         or  circumstances  which are likely to give rise to any such dispute or
         investigation.  Each Group  Company has paid all Taxes shown as due and
         payable on such Tax returns, reports, and forms.

38.      All  payments  made by any Group  Company to any person  which ought to
         have been made under deduction of tax have been so made and the Company
         has,  where  appropriate,  duly accounted to the relevant Tax Authority
         for such Tax.

39.      The Company is, to the extent required,  registered for the purposes of
         VAT and has complied with the terms of VAT  legislation in all material
         respects.

40.      Since 31 December  1997, no Group Company has incurred any liability in
         respect of any Taxation  which is material in the context of the Group,
         the Subscription or the Placing,  other than liabilities arising in the
         ordinary course of business of the Company since that date.

41.      Each  Group  Company  has  properly  operated  the PAYE  system by duly
         deducting Tax and National  Insurance from all payments from which such
         deductions are required to be made and accounting to the Inland Revenue
         for all Tax  deducted  by it and for  all Tax  chargeable  on  benefits
         provided for employees of the Group or any other person.

42.      The Company has not repaid or agreed to repay any share capital since 6
         April 1965 or otherwise  reduced or agreed to reduce its share  capital
         of any class or issued any share  capital as paid up otherwise  than by
         the receipt of new consideration.

43.      No Group  Company has  received  any written  notice of  deficiency  or
         assessment   from  any  Taxing   Authority  with  respect  to  material
         liabilities  for Taxes which have not been fully paid or  settled,  and
         there  are no suits,  claims,  or  proceedings  pending  or  threatened
         against any Group Company.

44.      No Group Company is under any  contractual  obligation to pay any Taxes
         of any other person or to indemnify any other person for Taxes.

45.      Each Group Company has established adequate reserves that are reflected
         on the  Accounts  for the payment of Taxes  occurring  through the date
         hereof but not yet due.

46.      The transfer pricing practices of the Group Companies have not been the
         subject to any review or audit by any Taxing Authority and there are no
         proceedings  pending  or  threatened  against  any Group  Company  with
         respect to such transfer pricing practices.

47.      Indemnity Claims

         To the best of the knowledge,  information  and belief of the Executive
         Directors,  there is no matter  which  might give rise to a claim under
         the indemnities contained in Clause 11.

48.      Information

         All information in the documentation referred to in Schedule 4 is true,
         accurate and complete in all material  respects and all  forecasts  and
         estimates  therein  have been made after due and proper  consideration,
         and  represent  reasonable  expectations  honestly  held based on facts
         known or which on  reasonable  enquiry  should  have been  known to the
         Directors in their capacity as Directors of the Company.


<PAGE>


                                   SCHEDULE 6

Certificate from the Directors and the Company to the Subscribers
                           [Letterhead of the Company]


To:      [                           ]                           1998



Dear Sirs/Madam

Proposed Subscription (the "Subscription")

We refer to the Subscription  and the  Subscription  Agreement dated [ ] 1998 in
which  a  draft  of  this  letter  appears  as  Schedule  6  (the  "Subscription
Agreement").  Words and expressions  defined in the Subscription  Agreement have
the same meanings herein.

We confirm that (subject only to the giving of this letter):-

(i)      we have complied with our  obligations  under of the  Subscription
         Agreement which fall  to be performed to date; and

(ii)     the London Stock Exchange has agreed to admit the  Subscription  Shares
         and the Placing Shares to the Official List subject only to Admission.

The Company  alone  confirms  that none of the  Warranties  was  breached or was
untrue,  inaccurate  or  misleading  when  made and none of such  warranties  or
undertakings would be breached or be untrue, inaccurate or misleading were it to
be repeated by reference to the facts and  circumstances  subsisting at the date
hereof.

Yours faithfully

 .................................
Director
for and on behalf of
Huntingdon Life Sciences Group PLC       ...................................
                                                                    Director
                                         ...................................
                                                                    Director
                                         ...................................
                                                                    Director


<PAGE>


SIGNED AS A DEED by                 )
CHRISTOPHER FREDERICK CLIFFE        )
and SUSAN HIDE                      )
for and on behalf of                )        C.F. Cliffe
HUNTINGDON LIFE SCIENCES GROUP PLC  )       .............................
                                             Director

                                             S Hide

 .............................
                                             Director/Secretary

SIGNED AND DELIVERED AS A DEED              )
by CHRISTOPHER FREDERICK CLIFFE     )       C.F. Cliffe
in the presence of:-     Scott Leonard-Morgan                 )
                         Simmons & Simmons
                         London


SIGNED AND DELIVERED AS A DEED              )
by MARTYN SANDFORD                          )        M Sandford
in the presence of:-     Scott Leonard-Morgan  )
                         Simmons & Simmons
                         London


SIGNED AND DELIVERED AS A DEED              )
by CAMERON MACKAY MACDONALD   )     C Macdonald
in the presence of:-     Scott Leonard-Morgan )
                         Simmons & Simmons
                         London


SIGNED AND DELIVERED AS A DEED      )
by ROGER ADRIAN PINNINGTON          )       M Sandford
in the presence of:-     Scott Leonard-Morgan                 )
                         Simmons & Simmons
                         London


SIGNED AND DELIVERED AS A DEED              )
by JOHN CALDWELL                            )        J Caldwell
in the presence of:-     Scott Leonard-Morgan    )
                         Simmons & Simmons
                         London


SIGNED AND DELIVERED AS A DEED      )
by LADISLAS OSCAR RICE              )       C.F. Cliffe
in the presence of:-     Scott Leonard-Morgan )
                         Simmons & Simmons
                         London

SIGNED by ANDREW BAKER              )       A Baker
in the presence of:-     Adam Dowdney                )
                         Solicitor, EC4


SIGNED by                                   )
for and on behalf of                        )        A Stafford-Deitsch
STEPHENS GROUP, INC.                        )
in the presence of:-     Adam Dowdney       )
                         Solicitor, EC4



SIGNED by                               )
for and on behalf of                    )        P Quillen
QUILCAP CORP.                           )
in the presence of:-                    )



SIGNED by                               )
for and on behalf of                    )        L Feinberg
ORACLE PARTNERS L.P.                    )
in the presence of:-                    )



SIGNED by SIDNEY KNAFEL                  )   by his attorney
in the presence of:-     Adam Dowdney    )   A Baker
                         Solicitor, EC4


SIGNED by RODMAN MOORHEAD III        )       by his attorney
in the presence of:-     Adam Dowdney)       A Baker
                         Solicitor, EC4


SIGNED by KIRBY CRAMER               )       by his attorney
in the presence of:-     Adam Dowdney)       A Baker
                         Solicitor, EC4


SIGNED by ANDREW STAFFORD-DEITSCH    )       A Stafford-Deitsch
in the presence of:-     Adam Dowdney)
                         Solicitor, EC4


SIGNED by GORDON GRENDER            )       G Grender
in the presence of:-     Selina Rutherston  )
                         45 Brookville Road
                         London SW6 7BH


<PAGE>



                                [Nat West Letter]


To Subscriber




                                                             _________ 1998




Dear Sirs,

                              Facilities Agreement
                       dated ________________ between [ ],
                    and [ ] and National Westminster Bank Plc
                          ("the Facilities Agreement")


We confirm that conditional only on the satisfaction of condition precedent [ii]
in Schedule 6 to the Facilities Agreement,  the sum of (pound)24,500,000 will be
advanced today as the first Revolving Advance under the Facilities Agreement and
without need for [ ] plc to serve a drawdown  notice  pursuant to the Facilities
Agreement  in relation  to such  advance to [ ] Plc  pursuant to the  Facilities
Agreement.

We  acknowledge  that  this  letter  is  required  as one of the  conditions  of
completion of arrangements under which you are today to subscribe for [ ] shares
in [ ] Plc and that you will be completing such  arrangement in reliance,  inter
alia, on this letter.


                                           Yours faithfully,




                                           ----------------------------
                                           For and on behalf of
                                           National Westminster Bank Plc







</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-3
<SEQUENCE>19
<TEXT>

                                                                CONFORMED COPY

THIS AGREEMENT is made on 10 August, 1998

BETWEEN:

(1)      HUNTINGDON  LIFE  SCIENCES  GROUP PLC,  registered in England and Wales
         with  number  502370  whose  registered  office  is  at  Woolley  Road,
         Alconbury, Huntingdon, Cambridgeshire PE17 5HS (the "Company"); and

(2)      KLEINWORT  BENSON  LIMITED,  a company  incorporated  in  England  with
         registered  number 1767419,  whose registered office is at 20 Fenchurch
         Street, London EC3P 3DB ("KB").

WHEREAS:

(A)      Subject to and as provided by this Agreement,  the Company  proposes to
         issue,  pursuant to the Open Offer,  on the basis and terms and for the
         purposes set out in the Circular,  the New Shares to rank pari passu in
         all respects with Shares in issue at the date hereof;

(B)      on, and subject to, the terms of this agreement, KB has agreed as agent
         for and on behalf of the Company:-

         (i)      to offer the New  Shares to  Qualifying  Holders  at the Offer
                  Price  under  the Open  Offer on the  basis of 1 New Share for
                  every 2 Shares  held on the Record Date and  otherwise  on the
                  terms and subject to the conditions in the Circular; and

         (ii)     in  respect  of any New  Shares  not  taken up under  the Open
                  Offer,  to procure (as agent for and on behalf of the Company)
                  persons to  subscribe  and,  to the extent that it does not do
                  so,  itself  to  subscribe  for,  the New  Shares at the Offer
                  Price; and

(C)      The Company is proposing to convene an Extraordinary General Meeting at
         which  resolutions  are to be proposed,  inter alia,  to authorise the
         Directors to allot the New Shares.

IT IS AGREED as follows:

1.     Definitions and interpretation

In this Agreement  (including the recitals and schedules hereto),  the following
words and expressions shall have the meanings respectively set opposite them:-

"Accountants"                      Arthur Andersen & Co.; admission  of  the 
                                   New  Shares  to the  Official  List becoming
                                   effective by the making of an announcement in
                                   accordance with paragraph 7.1 of the Listing
                                   Rules;
"Admission Date"                   the actual date of Admission;
"Affiliate"                        any company or other  undertaking  which is
                                   a member of the group (as defined in section
                                   262  of the Companies
                                   Act 1985) of which KB is a member;
"Application Form"                 the agreed  form of  application  for Shares
                                   under the Open Offer;
"Bank Deeds"                       has  the   meaning   specified   by  the  
                                   Subscription  Agreement;
"Baker Service Agreement"          has  the   meaning   specified  by  the 
                                   Subscription Agreement;
"Board"                            the Company's  board of directors or a duly
                                   authorised  Committee thereof;
"Brokers"                          Kleinwort Benson Securities Limited;
"Closing Date"                     26th August, 1998;
"Circular"                         any circular letter in agreed form to the
                                   shareholders and, for  information  only,
                                   to  option  holders  of  the Company, giving
                                   details of  the Placing and Open Offer,
                                   comprising    a   prospectus relating to the
                                   Company and the New Shares and containing a
                                   notice  convening the Extraordinary
                                   General Meeting;
"Conditions"                       the conditions set out in Clause 2.1;
"Dealing Day"                      any day upon which dealings in domestic
                                   securities may take place on the London
                                   Stock Exchange;
"Directors"                        the persons named in the Circular as
                                   directors of the
                                   Company and Mr. Andrew Baker;
"Extraordinary General Meeting"    the meeting of the Company (notice of which
                                   is set out in the Circular) at which, inter
                                   alia, the Resolutions are to be proposed;
"EGM Date"                         28th August, 1998;
"Facilities Agreement"             the Facilities Agreement in agreed form
                                   between, inter alia, the Company and National
                                   Westminster  Bank plc  dated  August, 1998;
"FSA"                              the Financial Services Act 1986;
"Group"                            the  group  of which  the  Company  and its
                                   subsidiary undertakings are members;
"Group Member"                     a member of the Group;
"KB Person"                        any  person  being  KB, an Affiliate or a 
                                   director, officer or an employee of KB or of
                                   an Affiliate;
"Latest Acceptance Time"           3p.m. on 26th August, 1998;
"Listing Rules"                    the listing rules made by the London Stock
                                   Exchange  pursuant to Part IV of the FSA;
"London Stock Exchange"            London Stock Exchange Limited;
"New Shares"                       the total of 57,003,431  Ordinary Shares to
                                   be allotted fully paid or  credited as fully
                                   paid pursuant to the Placing and Open Offer;
"Offer Documents"                  the Circular and the Application Form;
"Offer Price"                      12.5 pence per New Share;
"Official List"                    the Official List of the London Stock
                                   Exchange;
"Open Offer"                       the invitation (contained in  the Circular)
                                   to Qualifying  Holders  to  apply  to
                                   subscribe for New  Shares on the terms and 
                                   subject to the  conditions  in  the Offer 
"Ordinary Shares"                  Dpcuments; ordinary shares of five pence
                                   each in the Company;
"Placees"                          the persons  (including,  if  applicable, 
                                   KB) who are,  pursuant to the Placing,  to
                                   subscribe  for New Shares not taken up under
                                   the Open Offer;
"Placing"                          the placing  (subject to the rights of
                                   Qualifying Holders) of New Shares with
                                   Placees   by  KB  (and,   if applicable, the
                                   subscription by KB for any new shares not
                                   taken  up  under   the  Open Offer) pursuant
                                   to  this Agreement;
"Placing                           Letters"   letters   in  the agreed form
                                   despatched or to  be  despatched  to 
                                   proposed Placees concerning  their
                                   commitments to subscribe for New Shares
                                   pursuant to the Placing;
"Placing Sum"                      (pound)7.1  million,  being  the sum  equal
                                   to the aggregate value at the Offer Price of
                                   the New Shares;
"Press Announcement"               the  press  announcement  in  the  agreed 
                                   form giving
                                   details of, inter alia, the Placing and the
                                   Open Offer;
"Proxy Card"                       the agreed  form of proxy for use at the 
                                   Extraordinary General Meeting;
"Qualifying                        Shareholders" the holders of Ordinary Shares
                                   on  the register  of  members of the
                                   Company   at  the  close  of business on the
                                   Record Date other than certain  overseas
                                   Shareholders   who  are  not entitled to
                                   participate in the Open Offer as set out in
                                   the Circular;
"Record Date"                      the close of business on 31st July, 1998;
"Receiving Agents"                 Computershare  Services PLC, PO Box 859,
                                   Consort House,
                                   East Street, Bedminster, Bristol  BS99 1XZ;
"Resolutions"                      the   resolutions in the agreed form to be 
                                   proposed at the Extraordinary General
                                   Meeting (or any  adjournment thereof) as set
                                   out in the  notice convening the
                                   Extraordinary General Meeting which appears
                                   in the Circular;
"Service Agreements"               has the meaning specified by the Subscription
                                   Agreement;
"Shares"                           means  ordinary  shares  of 5p in  the
                                   capital  of the Company;
"Subscribers"                      Focused Healthcare Partnership Limited,
                                   Quilcap Corp., Oracle  Partners,   L.P., 
                                   Stephens  Group  Inc., SRK Management 
                                   Company,  Mr. Kirby  Cramer and Mr.  Rodman
                                   Moorhead III.
"Subscription                      Amount"  (pound)15  million, being  the sum
                                   equal to the aggregate   value at  the
                                   Subscription  Price  of  the Ordinary Shares
                                   to  be allotted  and  issued by the Company
                                   and the  Subscribers pursuant to the
                                   Subscription Agreement;
"Subscription Agreement"           means the subscription agreement in agreed
                                   form dated  5th  August,  1998  between the
                                   Subscribers  and  the Company;
"Subscription Price"               has  the  meaning  specified  by  the 
                                   Subscription Agreement;
"Supplementary Prospectus"         any prospectus to be published by the
                                   Company  pursuant  to  section  147(1) of
                                   the  FSA  supplementary  to the Circular
                                   (or to any previously published prospectus);
"taken up"                         has the meaning ascribed to it in Clause 4.3;
"Transaction Documents"            means the Facilities Agreement,  the
                                   Subscription Agreement,  the Bank Deeds,
                                   the Baker Service Agreement and the Service
                                   Agreements;
"VAT"                              value added tax;
"Verification Notes"               verification  notes prepared for the purpose
                                   of substantiating the accuracy of the
                                   Circular ;
"Warranties"                       the representations and warranties set out
                                   in Schedule  1 and given by the Company
                                   pursuant to Clause 8; and
"Working                           Capital Memorandum" the cash flow  and 
                                   working capital memorandum  prepared  by the
                                   Company  for the  period  to
                                   31st December, 1999.

  In this Agreement (including the Recitals and Schedules):

(A)               any reference to a document in "agreed form" means  the form
                  thereof  agreed  between the Company and KB and  initialled on
                  behalf of each of them for the purpose of  identification,  in
                  each case with such  amendments  as may be agreed  between the
                  Company and KB;

(B)               except as  otherwise  provided or where the context  otherwise
                  requires,  "material" and "materially"  shall mean material in
                  the context of the Placing and the Open Offer;

(C)               all references to hours of the day shall be to the time as it
                  is in England;

(D)               headings are for convenience only and do not affect the
                  construction of this Agreement;

(E)               reference  to  Recitals,  Clauses  or  Schedules  are,  unless
                  otherwise stated, to the recitals and clauses respectively of,
                  and schedules to, this Agreement;

(F)               words denoting the singular include the plural and vice versa,
                  words importing gender shall include all genders;

(G)               words and expressions  defined in the Companies Act 1985 shall
                  bear the same meaning herein,  except as otherwise provided or
                  where the context otherwise requires;

(H)               any  statement  qualified  by the  expression  "so  far as the
                  Company is aware" or the  expression  "so far as the Directors
                  are  aware"  or any  similar  expression  shall be  deemed  to
                  include an  additional  statement  that it has been made after
                  the  Company  and  the  Directors  have  made  all  reasonable
                  enquiries; and

(I)               references  to  any  statute  or  statutory   provision 
                  include  any   re-enactment   or modification  or extension 
                  thereof (whether before or after the date hereof), any 
                  statutory provision  of which a provision  referred to is a 
                  re-enactment(whether  with  or  without   modification),
                  and  any  orders,   regulations,  instruments  or  other
                  subordinate  legislation  made  under  the  statute  or
                  statutory  provision  referred to, save that this Clause 1
                  shall not operate to  the extent that it would  create or
                  increase  any  liability  for any party to this Agreement.

2.     Conditions

2.1  The obligations of KB under this Agreement are in all respects conditional
     on:

(A)  satisfaction of each of the conditions  precedent to which the
     Subscription  Agreement is subject,  excluding  any  condition
     relating to this Agreement becoming unconditional;

(B)  without  limitation to the  generality of paragraph (A) above,
     the  Facilities  Agreement,  the Bank Deed,  the Baker Service
     Agreement and the Service Agreements becoming unconditional in
     all respects except:

(i)   for any condition relating to this Agreement becoming unconditional; and

(ii)  for  receipt by National  Westminster  Bank plc of the
      Transaction   Proceeds   and  for   repayment  of  all
      Indebtedness  outstanding  in respect of the  Bridging
      Facility  (in each case as defined  by the  Facilities
      Agreement);

(C)  receipt  from  NM  Rothschild  &  Sons  Limited  of  a  letter
     confirming that the Subscription Amount is held by them, or to
     their  order,  in escrow and that  release  and payment of the
     whole  of such  sum to the  Company  in  accordance  with  the
     Subscription  Agreement is subject only to satisfaction of the
     conditions   precedent  to  such   payment   provided  by  the
     Subscription Agreement;

(D)  delivery by the Company to KB with effect immediately prior to
     Admission  of a  certificate,  signed for and on behalf of the
     Company by a Director, in the form set out as Schedule 2;

(E)  none of the Transaction Documents having been terminated;

(F)  no variation or waiver or agreement not to exercise its rights
     under any  Transaction  Document having been granted or agreed
     by the Company without the prior written consent of KB; and

(G)  the Resolutions  having been passed without  amendment (except
     as previously agreed in writing by KB);

     in each case by 4th September, 1998 (or such later time as KB may agree
     with the Company).

2.2  If  any  of the  Conditions  is not  fulfilled  or  shall  have  become
     incapable of being fulfilled on or by 4th September, 1998 or such later
     date as KB and the Company may agree,  the Company shall forthwith make
     an  announcement  to the London Stock Exchange to that effect in a form
     agreed by KB and the remaining obligations of each of the parties under
     this Agreement  shall  terminate,  other than to the extent provided in
     Clause 10.

2.3  The Company shall use all reasonable endeavours to procure that each of
     the Conditions is satisfied by 4th September, 1998.

3.   Document Delivery

3.1   The Company shall deliver or procure to be delivered to KB  immediately
      on execution of this Agreement:

(A)    certified copies of each of the Transaction Documents executed
       by each of the parties thereto;

(B)    six copies of the Press  Announcement,  the  Circular  and the
       Application Form initialled on behalf of the Company;

(C)    a copy  of the Working  Capital Memorandum initialled on  behalf of the
       Company;

(D)    two  signed  originals  of  the  written  verification  of the
       Accountants  to the inclusion in the Circular of the financial
       information  included in Parts IV and V of that  document  and
       the  respective  references  thereto in the forms and contexts
       included in the Circular;

(E)    two  signed  originals  of a  letter  (in  a  form  previously
       approved by KB) addressed to KB from the Directors  confirming
       that working capital available to the Group is sufficient;

(F)    four  certified  copies  of  signed   responsibility   letters
       addressed  to the Company  from each  Director and a certified
       copy  of the  letter  to the  Stock  Exchange  containing  the
       confirmations required by paragraph 5.5 of the Listing Rules;

(G)    (to the extent relied upon in executing any other  document to
       be  delivered  to KB pursuant  to this  Clause 3.1)  certified
       copies of powers of attorney executed by each Director;

(H)    a certified  copy of the  Verification  Notes  signed by or on
       behalf  of each of the  persons  stated  therein  as being the
       signatories  thereto,  together with a copy of each supporting
       document referred to therein;

(I)    a  certified  copy of the  minutes  of a meeting  of the  Board  (or of
       a duly  authorised committee   thereof) in  the  agreed  form approving,
       inter  alia,  (i) the Company's execution of this Agreement,  (ii) the
       making of the Placing and Open Offer by KB on the  Company's  behalf,
       (iii) the  Press  Announcement  and its release  by KB in  accordance 
       with  this  Agreement,  (iv) the  making  of the application to the
       London Stock Exchange for Admission;  and (v) the  Circular,
       the Application  Form and the Proxy Card and their issue to Qualifying 
       Holders and (as the case may be) potential Placees; and

(J)    a certified copy of the minutes of the meeting of the Board at
       which  any  committee  referred  to  at  Clause  3.1((I))  was
       appointed.

(K)    a  copy  of  the  Circular  certified  by a  Director  or  the
       secretary  of the  company to be a true copy of the  original)
       bearing  evidence  of  the  London  Stock  Exchange's   formal
       approval of the  Circular as listing  particulars  pursuant to
       the Listing Rules;

(L)    a letter from the Company to KB (in a form previously approved
       by  KB)  relating  to  the  declaration  required  from  KB by
       paragraph 2.8 of the Listing Rules; and

(M)    all such further information and documents (including, without
       limitation,  all  documents  specified by paragraph 7.9 of the
       Listing Rules) as KB may reasonably  require,  on or before or
       after such date,  for the purpose of assisting  the Company to
       obtain Admission or otherwise to facilitate the Open Offer and
       Placing.

3.2   KB may, in its absolute discretion, waive or vary any obligation of the
      Company under Clause 3.1 and may extend the time for delivery of any of
      the documents referred to therein.  Any waiver,  variation or extension
      may be made  subject to such terms as KB may  determine in its absolute
      discretion.

3.3   The Company undertakes to procure that:

(A)   two copies of the  Circular  shall be delivered by the Company
      to the  Registrar  of  Companies  in  England  and  Wales  for
      registration as required by section 149(1) of the FSA;

(B)   the Circular (and any  Supplementary  Prospectus) be published
      and  copies be made  available  at the  Company  Announcements
      Office of the London Stock  Exchange and elsewhere as required
      by Chapter 8 of the Listing Rules;

(C)   it  will  notify  the  information  referred  to in  paragraph
      9.10(j) of Chapter 9 of the Listing  Rules to the London Stock
      Exchange as required by such paragraph;

(D)   the  documents  stated in the Circular as being  available for
      inspection shall so be made available; and

(E)   it will  deal  with  any  change  or  matter  relating  to the
      Circular referred to in section 147(1) of the FSA which arises
      on or after the date of the Circular and prior to Admission in
      full compliance  with all applicable  provisions of Part VI of
      the FSA and paragraphs 5.14 to 5.16 of Chapter 5 and paragraph
      8.20 of  Chapter  8 of the  Listing  Particulars  (subject  to
      Clauses 9 and 10).

4.    The Placing and the Open Offer

4.1      Subject to  satisfaction  of the  Conditions  and to the other terms of
         this Agreement, KB agrees:

(A)      as agent for the Company to make the Open Offer to  Qualifying
         Shareholders  on the terms and subject to the  conditions  set
         out in the Offer Documents;

(B)      as agent for the Company to use its  reasonable  endeavours to
         procure  persons  (other than persons who would,  if they were
         existing  holders  of  Ordinary  Shares,   not  be  Qualifying
         Shareholders,  unless the Company shall  otherwise  consent in
         writing)  to  subscribe  for the New  Shares  pursuant  to the
         Placing  to the  extent  that the New  Shares are not taken up
         under the Open Offer; and

(C)      if any New  Shares  are not taken up under the Open  Offer and
         are not  otherwise  subscribed  for  pursuant to the  Placing,
         itself to subscribe for such New Shares,

         in each case at the Offer Price free of all expenses  and  otherwise on
         the terms and subject to the conditions set out in the Offer  Documents
         and this Agreement.

4.2      The Company  authorises KB to issue the Press  Announcement and subject
         to its release to make arrangements for the Placing and, in particular,
         for the  distribution of the Press  Announcement  and placing proofs of
         the  Circular  and Placing  Letters to such  persons as KB shall in its
         absolute discretion determine.
4.3      The Company  shall,  or shall procure that the Receiving  Agents shall,
         notify KB in  writing  as soon as  reasonably  practicable  (and in any
         event not later  than  10.30a.m.  on the  first  Dealing  Day after the
         Closing  Date) of the  number  of New  Shares  taken up under  the Open
         Offer,  being those Offer Shares in respect of which valid applications
         have been received in accordance  with the terms of the Open Offer (and
         have not been  rejected  in  accordance  with such terms) by the Latest
         Acceptance Time  accompanied by remittances for the full amount payable
         in respect  thereof  (other than  applications,  if any,  for which the
         relevant  remittances have been notified to the Receiving Agents by the
         Latest  Acceptance  Time  as  having  been  refused  by the  drawee  on
         presentation).  For the  avoidance  of doubt,  any New Shares which are
         taken up for the purpose of this Clause 4.3 but which are  comprised in
         an  Application  Form  which  is at  the  Latest  Acceptance  Time,  or
         thereafter may become subject to verification of identity  enquiries by
         the  Receiving   Agents  in  compliance   with  the  Money   Laundering
         Regulations  1993 or  otherwise  shall be  treated  as taken up for all
         purposes of this Agreement.

4.4      KB shall  notify  the  Receiving  Agents of the names and  registration
         details of the Placees and the number of Offer Shares to be  subscribed
         by  each  of  them  pursuant  to the  Placing  as  soon  as  reasonably
         practicable after it has been notified,  pursuant to Clause 4.3, of the
         number of New Shares not taken up and,  in any event,  by 3.00 p.m.  on
         the third  Dealing Day  immediately  following  the Closing Date and in
         default of KB so doing and such default not having being remedied by KB
         by 12  midnight  on the fifth  Dealing Day  immediately  following  the
         Closing Date the Company is hereby irrevocably authorised to treat this
         Agreement  as an  application  by KB on its  terms and  subject  to the
         Conditions for such number of New Shares.

4.5      The  Company  shall  allot  the  New  Shares  (if it has  not  done  so
         previously)  pursuant  to a  resolution  of  the  Board  or  of a  duly
         authorised  committee  thereof  as soon as  practicable  following  the
         Closing Date and the satisfaction of each of the Conditions:

(A)      in accordance with the terms of the Open Offer, to persons who
         have validly applied for New Shares under the Open Offer; and

(B)      in  accordance  with the  details  notified  to the  Receiving
         Agents  pursuant  to Clause  4.4,  to the  Placees  and/or (as
         appropriate) KB.

4.6      The  Company  shall  deliver to KB a certified  copy of the resolution
         referred to at Clause 4.5 by 4.00 p.m. on 28th August, 1998.

4.7      Subject to the Conditions and to the Company's compliance with Clauses
         4.3,  4.5 and 4.6, KB shall  transfer  or procure  the  transfer to the
         Company's account with

         of the sum equal to the aggregate  value at the Offer Price of all New
         Shares not taken up under the Open Offer (less any deduction therefrom
         made  pursuant  to Clause  6.6) in cleared  funds  for  value  on the
         Admission Date.

4.8      On  making  of  the  transfer  in  accordance  with  Clause  4.7,  KB's
         obligations under this Agreement shall cease and determine and KB shall
         have  no  further  obligations  to the  Company  under  this  Agreement
         (without  prejudice  to the  rights of the  Company  in  respect of any
         antecedent breach of this Agreement).  Such transfer shall constitute a
         complete  discharge of the Placees in respect of the amounts payable by
         them for their subscription of New Shares pursuant to the Placing.

4.9      The Company shall procure the  registration  of the persons to whom New
         Shares  are  allotted  pursuant  to Clause 4.5 as the  holders  thereof
         promptly  (without  registration fee) and shall procure that definitive
         certificates  in  respect  of the New  Shares  are  despatched  to such
         persons as soon as reasonably  practicable and, in any event, not later
         than 7th September, 1998 and that, pending such despatch,  transfers of
         New Shares are certified against the Company's register of members.

4.10     The  Company  irrevocably  appoints  KB to  act as its  agent  for  the
         purposes  of the  Placing  and the  Open  Offer  on  terms  that KB may
         exercise  all  powers,  authorities  and  discretions  on behalf of the
         Company which are necessary for or, in the reasonable opinion of KB are
         desirable for the purposes of, the Placing and/or the Open Offer.

4.11     The Company  confirms that  application  for Admission has been made to
         the London Stock Exchange in accordance with section 143 of the FSA and
         the Company  undertakes to supply all such information,  pay such fees,
         give such undertakings,  execute such documents and do or procure to be
         done all such acts or  things  as may  reasonably  be  required  by the
         London Stock Exchange to procure Admission.

4.12     The  Company  shall  give  all such  assistance  and  provide  all such
         information   as  KB  may   reasonably   require  for  the  making  and
         implementation  of the  Placing  and Open Offer and will do (or use its
         reasonable  endeavours  to  procure  to be done)  all such  things  and
         execute (or use its  reasonable  endeavours  to procure to be executed)
         all  documents  as may be  necessary  or  desirable  in the  reasonable
         opinion of KB to be done or executed by the Company or by its officers,
         employees  or agents for the making and  implementation  of the Placing
         and Open Offer.

5.     Overseas Shareholders

         The Company will,  and will use  reasonable  endeavours to procure that
         the Receiving  Agents will,  observe and comply with the  provisions in
         respect of overseas  shareholders  set out in Part III of the  Circular
         under the heading "Overseas  Shareholders" and will not knowingly allot
         New Shares to or accept a  completed  Application  Form from any person
         who is not a  Qualifying  Shareholder  without  the consent of KB, such
         consent not to be unreasonably withheld or delayed.

6.     Fee, Commissions and Expenses

6.1      The Company shall,  whether or not KB's  obligations  hereunder  become
         unconditional, pay to KB:

(A)      a fee of  (pound)750,000  for advisory  services in connection
         with the Company's raising new capital; and

(B)      in  respect  of KB's  services  described  in  Clause  4.1,  a
         commission  of 2 1/4 per cent. of the Placing Sum, of which KB
         shall apply a sum of up to 1 1/4 per cent.  of the Placing Sum
         in payment, on behalf of the Company, to Placees in accordance
         with the Placing Letters.

6.2      The amount  referred to in Clause 6.1 shall be paid  together with VAT,
         if any,  thereon  by the  Company for value on the  earlier of (i) the
         Admission  Date  and  (ii) the  date on  which  the obligations of KB
         hereunder cease and determine.

6.3      The fee and  commissions  set out in Clause 6.1 are payable  whether or
         not KB shall itself be called upon to  subscribe  any of the New Shares
         pursuant to this Agreement.

6.4      Whether or not KB's obligations under Clause 4 become  unconditional or
         this Agreement is  terminated,  the Company will pay all other expenses
         of or relating to this Agreement, the Placing, the Open Offer, securing
         Admission,  the issue of the New  Shares  and  including  (but  without
         limitation) all stamp duty and/or stamp duty reserve tax payable by any
         Placee or any other person in respect of his subscription of New Shares
         pursuant to the Placing or to the Open Offer,  Stock  Exchange  listing
         fees, registrars' and receiving agents' fees, printing, advertising and
         distribution costs, the Company's out-of-pocket expenses, the Company's
         legal, accountancy,  brokerage and other professional fees and expenses
         and the  out-of-pocket  and  reasonable  legal  expenses  of KB and all
         related VAT, and the Company will forthwith  upon request  reimburse KB
         for any such expenses for which the Company is responsible  pursuant to
         this  Clause  but which KB or (in  relation  to any such  stamp duty or
         stamp duty  reserve  tax) any Placee or other  person  subscribing  New
         Shares pursuant to the Placing or to the Open Offer may have incurred.

6.5      Where in pursuance of any  provision of  Clause 6.4  or Clause 7 a sum
         is reimbursed to KB the Company shall, in addition, pay to KB:

(A)     such amount as equals the VAT for which KB is properly  liable
        in respect of the costs or expenses  referred to at Clause 6.4
        or Clause 7 which KB is unable to reclaim as input tax from HM
        Customs and Excise by reason of:

(i)     such costs or  expenses  relating  to or  constituting
        part of the  consideration for a supply of services by
        KB to the Company which is exempt from VAT; or

(ii)    such  costs  or  expenses  constituting  disbursements
        incurred by KB as agent of the Company  (provided that
        KB procures that any  appropriate  VAT invoices naming
        the Company as recipient  of the  relevant  supply are
        issued in respect  of such items by the person  making
        the supply); and

(B)      on  receipt  of a VAT  invoice  such an amount  as equals  VAT
         properly  chargeable by KB by reason of such costs or expenses
         constituting consideration for a taxable supply of services by
         KB to the Company.

6.6    Payment of the fee and  commissions  in accordance  with Clause 6.1 and
       reimbursement  of expenses in accordance with Clause 6.4 may be made by
       deduction  thereof at KB's discretion from the amount to be transferred
       in respect of any New Shares in accordance with Clause 4.7.

7.     Indemnity

7.1    Subject to Clause 7.2, the Company  undertakes to KB, for itself and as
       agent and trustee on behalf of and for the benefit of each of the other
       KB Persons,  to keep each and every KB Person  indemnified  against all
       losses,  claims,  demands,   damages,   costs,  charges,   expenses  or
       liabilities,  (or  actions  proceedings  or  investigations  in respect
       thereof)  which such KB Person may suffer or incur or which may be made
       against such KB Person and which arise, directly or indirectly,  out of
       or in connection with:

(A)    any breach or alleged breach by the Company of this Agreement;

(B)    the carrying out or  performance  by or on behalf of KB of any
       of its  obligations or services under this Agreement or of any
       other  action   authorised  or  approved  by  the  Company  in
       connection with the Placing and/or the Open Offer;

(C)    the issue or  approval  of any  investment  advertisement  (as
       defined in the FSA) made with the Company's  prior approval in
       connection with the Placing and/or the Open Offer;

(D)    the release or despatch of the Press  Announcement  and/or the
       Offer Documents and/or any Supplementary Prospectus; or

(E)    any  failure or alleged  failure by the  Company or any of the
       Directors to comply with any legal,  statutory  or  regulatory
       requirement in relation to any of the Placing, the Open Offer,
       the allotment and/or issue of the New Shares,  the publication
       of any of the Offer  Documents and any  transaction or matters
       referred to in the Circular;

     together  with the  properly  incurred  costs and  expenses  of such KB
     Person in enforcing its rights under this Clause 7.

7.2  The  indemnity  in Clause  7.1 shall not  extend or apply to the extent
     that any  loss,  claim,  liability,  action,  demand,  cost or  expense
     referred to therein:

(A)     arises by reason of the negligence or wilful default of any KB
        Person  or  from  wilful  breach  of any KB  person's  duty or
        obligation   under   any   legal   statutory   or   regulatory
        requirement; and/or

(B)     is  suffered  or  incurred  by a KB  Person as a result of its
        having  been  required  itself  to  subscribe  for New  Shares
        pursuant to Clause 4.1,  unless such loss,  claim,  liability,
        action,  demand or expense  results from any breach or alleged
        breach by the Company of this  Agreement  (including,  for the
        avoidance of doubt, the Warranties).

7.3      All sums payable by the Company  under this Clause 7 shall be paid free
         and clear of all set-off,  counterclaims,  deductions  or  withholdings
         whatsoever  save only as may be required by law. If any such  set-offs,
         counterclaims, deductions or withholdings are required by law or if the
         United  Kingdom  Inland  Revenue or any other  taxing  authority in any
         jurisdiction   brings  into  any  charge  to  taxation   (or  into  any
         computation of income,  profits or gains for the purposes of any charge
         to  taxation)  any sum payable by the Company  under this Clause 7, the
         amount so payable  shall be grossed  up by such  amount as will  ensure
         that after such  deduction  or  withholding  or the  deduction  of such
         taxation  there  shall  remain a sum equal to the  amount  which  would
         otherwise be payable  under this Clause 7  (additional  payments  being
         made by the Company as may be necessary from time to time).

7.4      As soon as reasonably practicable and in any event within 14 days of KB
         becoming  aware of any  action or claim or other  matter in  respect of
         which  indemnity may be sought pursuant to this Clause 7, KB shall give
         notice and reasonable details thereof to the Company. In such event, KB
         shall  consult  with  the  Company  and keep the  Company  informed  in
         relation  thereto  to the  extent  reasonable  and  practicable  in the
         circumstances  subject to any requirement  imposed by any insurer of KB
         or any Affiliate.

8.     Warranties

8.1      The Company  represents  and warrants to KB in the terms of each of the
         Warranties set out in Schedule 1 and  acknowledges  that KB is entering
         into this Agreement in reliance upon each of the Warranties.

8.2      Each of the Warranties  shall be construed  separately and shall not be
         limited or  restricted  by reference to or inference  from the terms of
         any other of them or any other term of this Agreement.

8.3      Without  prejudice to Clause 10.3, the Warranties  shall remain in full
         force and effect  notwithstanding  the completion of the Placing or the
         Open Offer.

8.4      The Company undertakes to KB that it shall not do, allow or procure any
         act or omission before Admission which would constitute a breach of any
         of the  Warranties  or would make any of them untrue or  inaccurate  or
         misleading  if  repeated  by  reference  to  facts  and   circumstances
         subsisting at any time prior to Admission.

8.5      The Company shall notify KB at any time before  Admission  forthwith of
         any matter of which it becomes aware which causes any of the Warranties
         to be untrue or  inaccurate  or  misleading  in any  respect  when made
         and/or,  if any  such  Warranty  was  repeated  at any  time  prior  to
         Admission  by  reference  to  the  facts  and  circumstances   then  in
         existence,  would cause it to be untrue or  inaccurate or misleading in
         any respect.

8.6      The Company hereby  acknowledges  that neither KB nor any Affiliate has
         (except to the extent that such person has  expressly,  by signature of
         the Verification  Notes (or by the provision of any specific  assurance
         or confirmation in respect of specific  questions  contained  therein),
         taken  responsibility  for  the  accuracy  of any  part  of  the  Offer
         Documents)  been  requested  by the  Company  to carry  out any form of
         investigation  or  verification  exercise  relating to the accuracy and
         fairness  of any  information  contained  in  the  Offer  Documents  or
         otherwise  published by or on behalf of the Company in connection  with
         the  Placing  or the  Open  Offer  (this  acknowledgement  is,  for the
         avoidance  of doubt,  without  prejudice  to KB's  responsibilities  as
         sponsor  to the  Placing  and Open  Offer  and  under  the rules of the
         Securities and Futures  Authority).  The Company also acknowledges that
         the replies to the  Verification  Notes have been prepared and given by
         persons  reasonably  believed  by the Board to have the  knowledge  and
         responsibility  to enable them properly to provide such replies and, so
         far as the Company is aware,  that all such  replies have been given in
         good faith.

9.     Announcements and Agreements

9.1    The Company  shall not (and shall procure that each other Group Member)
       and KB shall not, in each case without the prior  consent in writing of
       the other (not to be  unreasonably  withheld or  delayed),  between the
       date of this Agreement and the date thirty  consecutive  days after the
       Admission Date:-

(A)    make any public  statement,  public  announcement or  communication 
       (other than the Offer Documents  and the Proxy Card)  concerning  this
       Agreement,  the Placing,  the Open  Offer,  the  securities  of the 
       Company  or any  Group  Member  which is material  or in  relation  to
       the  market  in  the  Company's  issued  Ordinary Shares,  save as may 
       strictly be required by law or the rules and  regulations of  the London
       Stock  Exchange  or  any  governmental  or  quasi-governmental
       authority or other regulatory body having  jurisdiction  over the
       Company or KB (as the case may be); or

(B)    enter into any  commitment  or agreement or  arrangement  (other than as
       envisaged in this Agreement)  or  knowingly do or permit to be done any
       other act or thing which, in any such case,  is  material in the context
       of the Placing or the Open Offer or in relation to the market in the 
       Company's  issued  Ordinary  Shares  which would  give  rise  to  any 
       obligation   for  the   Company  to  publish   any Supplementary 
       Prospectus  or for the Company or any other Group Member to make any
       announcement through or notification to the London Stock Exchange or any
       other  governmental or  quasi-governmental  authority or other 
       regulatory body having  jurisdiction  over any  Group  Member or KB or
       by virtue of any law to which  such  Group  Member or KB (as the case
       may be) is  subject  or which may (except pursuant to the exercise of
       existing  subscription  rights) involve any increase in, or obligation 
       (whether  contingent or otherwise) to allot any of,
       the  capital of the Company or any other  Group  Member,  save for the
       grant or exercise of options pursuant to an existing share option scheme.

9.2      The Company and KB undertake  so far as is  reasonably  practicable  to
         consult  with  the  other  in  relation  to  any  proposed   statement,
         announcement or communication  which either of them is required to make
         as stated in Clause 9.1 (including any  Supplementary  Prospectus)  and
         which  would,  save for this  requirement,  necessitate  a  consent  in
         accordance  with  Clause  9.1 and to  take  account  of the  reasonable
         representations  of the other in determining  the terms thereof and the
         manner in which it is made.

9.3      The Company undertakes to KB to make all such announcements  concerning
         the  Placing  and the Open Offer as shall be  necessary  to comply with
         paragraph  1 of  Chapter  9 of  the  Listing  Rules  and/or  any  other
         applicable  regulatory  or  statutory  requirement.  KB may,  following
         consultation   with  and  after  taking  into  account  the  reasonable
         representations  of the  Company,  make  any such  announcement  if the
         Company fails (in the opinion of KB acting in good faith) to fulfil its
         obligations  under this Clause promptly (but without any obligation for
         KB to do so).

10.    Termination

10.1   If KB becomes aware, at any time prior to Admission, that:-

(A)    the Company is in breach of any of its  obligations  hereunder
       or cannot  comply with any such  obligation  in each case in a
       respect which KB regards as material; or

(B)    any of the  Warranties  is or if  repeated  at any  time up to
       Admission  (by reference to the facts and  circumstances  then
       existing)  would be untrue,  inaccurate  or  misleading in any
       material respect,

         KB shall be entitled in its absolute discretion by notice in writing to
         the Company to be delivered  prior to Admission  forthwith to terminate
         its  obligations  hereunder  and the Company  shall  forthwith  make an
         announcement to the London Stock Exchange to that effect.

10.2     Cessation of and  termination of KB's  obligations  in accordance  with
         Clause 2 or this  Clause 10 shall be without  prejudice  to KB's rights
         under Clauses 6, 7, 9, 11 and 12 (which  Clauses shall continue in full
         force and effect for all  purposes)  and to the rights of each party in
         respect of any antecedent breach hereof.

10.3     The representations, warranties and undertakings set out or referred to
         in Clause 7 and in  Clause 8 shall  remain  in full  force  and  effect
         notwithstanding  Admission and/or  performance of KB of its obligations
         hereunder  and shall be in addition  to and shall not limit,  affect or
         prejudice  any other right or remedy  available  to the person in whose
         favour such representation, warranty or undertaking is made.

11.    Notices

11.1     Any notice to be given under this Agreement shall be in writing for the
         attention of the person  stated below and served  personally or sent by
         pre-paid registered mail to the respective  addresses shown above or by
         facsimile  as set out below,  or as the party  required  to receive the
         same may otherwise from time to time notify to the other:-

                       The Company                 KB
         Address:      Huntingdon Life Sciences    Kleinwort Benson Securities
                       Group plc                   Limited
                       Woolley Road                20 Fenchurch Street
                       Alconbury                   London  EC3P 3DB
                       Huntingdon
                       Cambridgeshire
                       PE17 5HS
         Facsimile:    01480 892195                0171 623 5535
         Attn:         The Company Secretary       Charles Cameron, Director

11.2 Any such notice or communication shall be deemed to have been served:

(A)    if delivered, at the time of delivery;

(B)    if posted by first class post, at 10.00 a.m.  on the second  business
       day after it was put into the post; and

(C)    if sent by facsimile, at the time of effective transmission.

11.3     In proving  such service by post it shall be  sufficient  to prove that
         the letter  containing the notice or other  communication  was properly
         addressed and  delivered or put into the post as a pre-paid  registered
         letter.  In proving  effective  transmission  by  facsimile it shall be
         sufficient to prove that the facsimile  containing such notice or other
         communication  was sent to the  appropriate  number and the appropriate
         answerback  was received at the end of the  transmission  in respect of
         the number of pages comprised in the notice or other communication.

12.    Miscellaneous

12.1     The Company  undertakes  to KB to comply with all material  obligations
         applicable to it contained or represented in the Transaction  Documents
         and to execute and/or provide or procure to be executed or provided all
         such  documents and to do or procure to be done all such other acts and
         things as KB may  reasonably  request  for the  purpose of the  Company
         complying with its obligations  under this Agreement and/or in order to
         cause  persons to acquire  New Shares  which are to be allotted to them
         pursuant to the  Placing  and/or the Open Offer  and/or this  Agreement
         with the entire right, title and interest to and in the New Shares.

12.2     The Company confirms that it has instructed the Receiving Agents to act
         as receiving agents in connection with the Placing,  the Open Offer and
         the  Extraordinary  General  Meeting  and to  perform  the  obligations
         assigned to them under the Offer  Documents  and this  Agreement and on
         terms that monies  received in respect of  applications  under the Open
         Offer shall be paid in to a separate account pending the closing of the
         Open Offer shall  thereupon held to KB's order  (provided that KB shall
         direct that such monies shall be paid from such  account in  accordance
         with the Offer Documents).

12.3     The Company confirms that, in addition to any remedy or right of action
         available under this  Agreement,  KB shall be entitled (as allottees of
         the New Shares or  otherwise) to the same remedies and rights of action
         against  the  Company  and/or the  Directors  to the same extent as any
         other  person  acquiring  any New  Shares  on the  basis  of the  Offer
         Documents and pursuant to the Open Offer.

12.4     The rights and remedies of each party under this  Agreement are without
         prejudice to any other rights and remedies available to it. No neglect,
         delay or  indulgence  on the part of any party hereto in enforcing  any
         term of this  Agreement  will be construed as a waiver and no single or
         partial exercise of any rights or remedy of any party hereto under this
         agreement will preclude or restrict the further exercise or enforcement
         of any such right or remedy.

12.5     Time shall be of the  essence of this  Agreement,  both as regards  the
         times, dates and any period mentioned herein and as to any times, dates
         and periods  which may,  by  agreement  in writing  between the parties
         hereto, be substituted for them.

12.6     This Agreement may be executed in any number of counterparts and by the
         parties  hereto on separate  counterparts,  each of which when executed
         shall  constituted  an  original,  but  all  of  which  shall  together
         constitute one and the same instrument.

12.7 This  Agreement  shall be governed by and construed in accordance  with the
laws of England.



<PAGE>



IN WITNESS  WHEREOF  this  Agreement  has been  executed by the duly authorised
signatories of the parties the day and year first above written.

SIGNED BY CHRISTOPHER CLIFFE                        )
for and   on behalf of the                          )
HUNTINGDON LIFE SCIENCES GROUP PLC )        CHRISTOPHER CLIFFE
in the presence of:                                 )

SCOTT LEONARD MORGAN
 ..............................................

Name:      SCOTT LEONARD MORGAN

Address:   SIMMONS & SIMMONS, LONDON

Occupation:



SIGNED BY CHARLES CAMERON          )
for and on behalf of               )
KLEINWORT BENSON          )        CHARLES CAMERON
LIMITED in the presence            )
of:                                )

NIGEL STEVENSON
 .............................................

Name:    NIGEL STEVENSON

Address: DRESDNER KLEINWORT BENSON, LONDON

Occupation:



<PAGE>


                                           SCHEDULE 1:
                                           Warranties

1.   Accuracy of information - Each statement of fact contained in the Press
     Announcement  and the  Circular is true and accurate in all material
     respects and is not  misleading  (by itself or in its  context)  in any
     material  respect  and each  expression  of opinion, intention  or 
     expectation  (unless  expressly  attributed  to a person  other  than the
     Directors or the Company) (including any forecast or estimate of
     dividends),  contained in the Press  Announcement  and the Circular is
     fairly  based and  honestly  held by the Directors  and has been made on
     reasonable  grounds after due and careful  consideration and there are no
     other  facts the  omission of which  would make any such  statement  of
     fact or  expression  of opinion,  intention or  expectation  false or 
     misleading in any material aspect.

2.   The New Shares - The New Shares will be allotted and issued in accordance 
     with the Offer Documents  free from all  encumbrances,  claims,  liens or
     other third party  rights of whatsoever  nature  without  any need for any
     person to  receive a report in respect of any New Shares  pursuant  to
     section 103 of the  Companies  Act 1985 or to pay any stamp duty  reserve
     tax in  respect  thereof.  The New  Shares  will rank  pari  passu in all
     respects  with the existing  issued  Ordinary  Shares  including  (save as
     stated in the Circular) the right to participate in all dividends and
     other  distributions  hereafter declared, paid made on or in respect of
     such existing Ordinary Shares .

3.   Accounts - The audited  consolidated  balance  sheets of the company and
     its  subsidiaries and the audited consolidated profit and loss account for
     the  three  successive accounting  periods  ended  30th  December  1997, 
     as set out in the  annual  report and accounts of the Company for such
     periods  (including  the notes thereon) give a true and fair  view of the
     state  of  affairs  of the  Group  as at,  and the  profits  for the
     financial  year  ended  at,  the end of  such  periods,  as  applicable,
     make  adequate provision for all liabilities,  whether actual, deferred,
     contingent or disputed,  and were prepared in accordance  with the
     accounting  policies  stated therein (save to the extent disclosed
     therein) in accordance with generally accepted  accounting  principles
     consistently  applied and all relevant  Statements of Standard Accounting
     Practice and Financial  Reporting  Standards,  and  comply  with  each
     applicable  provision  of the Companies Act 1985.

4.   Previous  announcements - In respect of all announcements made by or on
     behalf of the Company to the London  Stock  Exchange  since the date of
     publication  of the  Accounts ("previous  announcements"),  all statements
     of fact  contained therein were true and accurate in all material respects
     and not  misleading in any material respect and all expressions of opinion
     or intention or expectation  contained  therein (unless expressly
     or by  implication  attributed  to a person  other than the  Directors
     or the  Company) which are material were made on  reasonable  grounds and
     were truly and honestly held by  the  Directors  and were  fairly  based
     and there were no other  facts or which could on reasonable  enquiry have
     been known to the  Directors  the omission of which would make
     any such  statement or  expression  in any of the previous  announcements
     misleading or which  were  or  might  have  been  material  in  the 
     context  in  which  the  previous announcements were made and all previous
     announcements complied with the Listing Rules.

5.   Compliance  - The entry into this  Agreement  and the  performance  by the
     Company of its obligations hereunder or in connection therewith, including
     the offer,  allotment and issue of the New Shares in accordance with the
     Offer  Documents  and the  provisions of this  Agreement,  are  within the
     powers  of the  Company  and its  Directors  without (subject to the
     passing  of the  Resolutions)  the need for any  further  sanction  or
     consent  by the  members  of the  Company  or any class of them or any
     other person and will comply with all relevant  requirements of all
     applicable  legislation,  the Listing Rules  and all  other  applicable
     rules  and  regulations  and will not  constitute  an infringement  or
     default  of any  obligation  under  any  agreement  to which any Group
     Member  is a party  or by which  it or any of them or its or any of  their
     property  is bound  (but  limited  to  agreements  where such infringement
     or default  would have a material adverse effect on the financial position
     of the Group).

6.   Third party  authorisations - All authorisations,  approvals,  consents
     and licences  required by the Company to enter into and  complete  this
     Agreement have been unconditionally  obtained and are in full force and
     effect (save for the passing of the Resolution and Admission).

7.   Prospectus - The  Circular  contains all such  information  as,  having
     regard  to the  matters  referred  to in  section  146(3)  of the  FSA,
     investors and their professional advisers would reasonably require, and
     reasonably  expect to find there, for the purpose of making an informed
     assessment of the assets and liabilities,  financial position,  profits
     and losses and prospects of the Company and of the rights  attaching to
     the New Shares.

8.   Working  capital and  indebtedness - The Working  Capital  Memorandum and
     the statement of indebtedness  of the  Group,  which is set out in the
     Circular,  have in each case been approved by the Board (or a duly
     appointed  committee  thereof) and have been  prepared after due and 
     careful  enquiry and on the bases and  assumptions  stated in the Working
     Capital  Memorandum  which each Director  believes to be  reasonable  and,
     so far as the Directors  are aware  after  making  due and  careful
     enquiries,  there are no facts or assumptions  not set out in the Working
     Capital  Memorandum  which  ought to have been reasonably  taken  into
     account  but which have not been  taken  into account in the preparation
     of the  Working  Capital  Memorandum.  The statement  in  relation  to the
     working  capital  available to the Group set out in the Circular has been
     properly made after due and careful  enquiry and has been made after
     taking into account all relevant factors.

9.   Material  changes  - since  30th  December  1997 the  operations  of the
     Group  have been carried on in the  ordinary  and usual  course and there
     has been no material  change in the  financial  or trading  position or 
     prospects of the Group save as disclosed by the Company  through the
     Regulatory  News  Service of the London  Stock  Exchange and since
     such  relevant  date no  member  of the  Group  has made  any  material 
     acquisition  or disposal  or  agreed to make any  material  acquisition or
     disposal  of any  business, company or material  asset  other than in the
     ordinary  course of  business  nor has it made any  material  commitments
     other than in the ordinary  course of business,  and no
     contracts  have been  entered into by any Group  Member otherwise than in
     the ordinary course of business which are material for disclosure.

10.  Litigation  - Save as  disclosed  in the  Circular  no  Group  Member
     nor, so far as the Directors are aware, any person for whom a Group Member
     or any of its  subsidiaries  is or may be vicariously  liable is engaged
     in any  litigation or  arbitration  proceedings which  individually  or
     collectively  may have or have had  during the twelve months preceding the
     date of this Agreement a significant  effect on the financial  position of
     the  Group  or  are  material  for  disclosure  nor,  to  the  best  of 
     the  knowledge, information  and belief of the Directors  (having made all
     reasonable  enquiries),  are there  any  circumstances  which  may  give
     rise  to  any  such  legal  or  arbitration proceedings.

11.  Supplementary  Prospectus  -  All  statements  of fact contained in any
     Supplementary Prospectus  will be true and accurate in all material
     respects and not  misleading  and all  expressions  of opinion or
     intention  contained  therein  (unless  expressly or by implication
     attributed  to a person other than the  Directors  or the Company) will be
     made on  reasonable  grounds and will be truly and honestly held by the
     Directors  and will be  fairly  based  and  there  will be no  other facts
     known  or  which  could on reasonable enquiry  have been known to the
     Directors  the omission of which would make any such  statement or
     expression  in any such  Supplementary  Prospectus  misleading or which
     will be or might be  material.  If any  Supplementary  Prospectus is
     published, then the Circular, together with such Supplementary Prospectus,
     will contain all such information  as, having regard to the matters 
     referred to in section 146(3) of the FSA, investors and their professional
     advisers  would reasonably  require,  and reasonably expect to find there,
     for the purpose of making an  informed  assessment  of the assets
     and  liabilities,  financial  position,  profits and losses and prospects
     of the Company and of the rights attaching to the New Shares.

12.  Subscription  Agreement - No breach of the  Subscription  Agreement has
     occurred   prior  to  Admission  that  would  give  any  party  to  the
     Subscription   Agreement  the  right  to  terminate  the   Subscription
     Agreement  irrespective  of whether  any such  party  either has or has
     notified  in  writing  an  intention  to  terminate  the   Subscription
     Agreement.

13.  Verification  Notes - The  replies  given  by the  Company  and/or  the
     Directors to the  Verification  Notes have been prepared or approved by
     persons having appropriate  knowledge and responsibility to enable them
     properly to provide such replies.

14.  Insolvency - Neither the Company nor any of its  Subsidiaries has taken
     any action,  nor have any other  steps been taken or legal  proceedings
     been started or (so far as the Directors are aware) threatened  against
     the Company or any of its  subsidiaries  for its or their winding up or
     dissolution,  or for it or any of them to enter into any arrangement or
     composition  for the benefit of creditors,  or for the appointment of a
     receiver,  trustee,  administrator,  administrative receiver or similar
     officer of any of them or any of their respective properties,  revenues
     or assets.

15.  Material  contracts - All subsisting  material  contracts  entered into
     within  two years of the date of the  Circular  (other  than  contracts
     entered into in the ordinary  course of business) by the Company or any
     of its  subsidiaries  will be disclosed in the Circular and no material
     contracts  (other than those so disclosed and those entered into in the
     ordinary  course of business) will without the written consent of KB be
     varied prior to Admission.

16.  Repayment of indebtedness - Except as may be disclosed in the Circular,
     no event or circumstance  has  arisen  nor,  so far as the  Company  is
     aware,  is  about  to arise (including,  for the avoidance of doubt, 
     pursuant to the issue of the New Shares or the entry into of this 
     Agreement),  such that any  person is or,  with the giving of notice
     or the lapse of time,  would be  entitled  to  require  payment of any
     indebtedness  in respect of borrowed  monies of any Group  Member before
     its stated  maturity or to take any step to enforce any security therefor,
     no material repayment of any  indebtedness of any Group Member has been
     demanded, before its due date for repayment,  by reason of any default of
     any such Group Member and no person to whom any such  indebtedness which
     is payable on demand is owed has demanded or  threatened  to demand 
     repayment of, or to take any step to enforce any security for, such
     indebtedness.

17.  Options  - Save as  disclosed  in the  Circular,  there are in force no
     options or other  agreements  which call for the issue of, or afford to
     any  person  the  right to call  for the  issue  of any  shares  in the
     capital, or other securities, of the Company.



<PAGE>


                                   SCHEDULE 2:
                            Clause 2.1(C) Certificate

                           [Letterhead of the Company]

The Directors
Kleinwort Benson Securities Limited                [                ] 1998



Dear Sirs,

                             Placing and Open Offer

We refer to Clause  2.1(C) of a placing  and open  offer  agreement  between  us
relating to the Open Offer dated August, 1998 (the "Placing  Agreement").  Words
and expressions defined in the Placing Agreement have the same meanings herein.

We hereby confirm to you that:

(a)      each of the  Conditions  referred  to in Clause  2.1 to of the  Placing
         Agreement has been either fulfilled or waived by you in accordance with
         the terms of the Placing Agreement; and

(b)      the  Company is not aware that any of the  Warranties  was  breached or
         untrue or inaccurate or misleading in any material  respect at the date
         of the  Placing  Agreement  or  that  there  has  been  any  change  of
         circumstances  such that if repeated at the date hereof by reference to
         the facts and circumstances  subsisting at the date hereof any Warranty
         would be breached or untrue or inaccurate or misleading in any material
         respect.

                                        Yours faithfully,





                             ......................................

                                   Director, duly authorised,
                     for and on behalf of Huntingdon Life Sciences Group plc




<PAGE>


                                    CONTENTS
                                                               Page


1. Definitions and interpretation                                1


2. Conditions                                                    6


3. Document Delivery                                             7


4. The Placing and the Open Offer                                9


5. Overseas Shareholders                                        12


6. Fee, Commissions and Expenses                                12


7. Indemnity                                                    13


8. Warranties                                                   14


9. Announcements and Agreements                                 15


10. Termination                                                 16


11. Notices                                                     17


12. Miscellaneous                                               18


SCHEDULE 1: Warranties                                          21


SCHEDULE 2: Clause 2.1(C) Certificate                           25


Agreed form documents:

Application Form
Circular
Completion Board Minutes (see Clause 3.1((I)))
Placing Letters
Press Announcement
Proxy Card
Resolutions



<PAGE>







                                                               CONFORMED COPY

                              DATED 10 August, 1998







                       HUNTINGDON LIFE SCIENCES GROUP PLC






                                     - and -






                            KLEINWORT BENSON LIMITED










         --------------------------------------------------------------

                                PLACING AND OPEN
                                 OFFER AGREEMENT

         --------------------------------------------------------------











                                Slaughter and May
                              35 Basinghall Street
                                 London EC2V 5DB
                                    (ANH/HKG)



</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-3
<SEQUENCE>20
<TEXT>

DATED                                                                    1998





                    (1)      HUNTINGDON LIFE SCIENCES GROUP plc


                    (2)      ANDREW H BAKER

















                                   OPTION DEED















                                 Charles Russell
                              8-10 New Fetter Lane
                                 London EC4A 1RS

                               Ref: TL/MC/25407/3


<PAGE>


                                      INDEX


                          (for reference purposes only)



Clause                         Heading                            Page No.


1        DEFINITIONS AND INTERPRETATION                               1
         ------------------------------

2        OPTIONS                                                      6
         -------

3        EXERCISE AND LAPSE OF OPTIONS                                6
         -----------------------------

4        PROCEDURE ON THE EXERCISE OF AN OPTION                       8
         --------------------------------------

5        TAKEOVERS AND LIQUIDATIONS                                   9
         --------------------------

6        VARIATION OF SHARE CAPITAL                                  11
         --------------------------

7        TAXATION                                                    11
         --------

8        COSTS                                                       12
         -----

9        ASSIGNMENT                                                  12
         ----------

10       TIME FOR PERFORMANCE                                        12
         --------------------

11       NOTICES                                                     12
         -------

12       GOVERNING LAW                                               12
         -------------

13       COUNTERPARTS                                                13
         ------------

14       VARIATIONS                                                  13
         ----------





<PAGE>

THIS DEED is made                                                  1998

BETWEEN:

(1)      Huntingdon  Life Sciences Group  plc whose  registered office is at
         ("the Grantor"); and

(2)      ANDREW H BAKER of                      ("the Grantee")

WHEREAS:

The Grantor  has agreed to grant  options to the  Grantee to  subscribe  for the
Shares (as  hereinafter  defined)  on the terms and  conditions  set out in this
Deed.

IT IS HEREBY AGREED:



<PAGE>


1        DEFINITIONS AND INTERPRETATION

1.1      In this Deed the  following  words and  expressions  shall (except
         where the context  otherwise  requires)  have the following
         meanings:-

         "Act"                      the Companies Act 1985;

         "Appropriate Period"       (i) if the
                                        circumstances   in
                                        Clause  5.1  apply
                                        the  period of six
                                        months   beginning
                                        with  the  date on
                                        which  the  person
                                        making  the  offer
                                        has obtained Control of the
                                        Grantor and any condition subject
                                        to which the offer
                                        is made  has  been
                                        satisfied;

                                   (ii) if the circumstances in
                                        Clause  5.2  apply
                                        the  period of six
                                        months beginning
                                        with  the  date on
                                        which the Reconstruction
                                        Scheme is sanctioned  by the
                                        Court;

                                 (iii)  if the circumstances in
                                        Clause  5.3  apply the period  during
                                        which  the  person remains  bound  or
                                        entitled to acquire any shares
                                        in the Grantor;

         "Auditors"                     the auditors for the time being of the
                                        Grantor  appointed  pursuant to section
                                        384 of the Act and acting as experts and
                                        not as arbitrators;

         "Board"                        the Board of  directors  for the time
                                        being of the Grantor or a duly appointed
                                        committee thereof at which a quorum is
                                        present;

         "Control"                      the same meaning  as in Section 840
                                        of  the Taxes  Act  and  the expression
                                        "controlled" shall be construed
                                        accordingly;

         "Dealing Day"                  a day on which the London Stock Exchange
                                        is open for business;

         "Group"                        the Grantor and company under the
                                        Control of the Grantor;

         "London Stock Exchange"        the London Stock Exchange Limited;

         "Market Value"                 in respect of any Share on any day
                                        means either:

                                   (a)  (when on that day the shares of that
                                        class  are  listed on  the  official
                                        list of the London Stock Exchange)
                                        the middle market quotation  of such
                                        a Share as derived from the Daily
                                        Official  List  of the London Stock
                                        Exchange for the Dealing Day
                                        immediately preceding that day; or

                                  (b)   in all other cases the market value
                                        of such a Share as determined in
                                        accordance with the provisions of
                                        part  VIII  of the Taxation of
                                        Chargeable Gains
                                      
         "Option"                a right to subscribe for Shares pursuant to
                                 this Deed and where the context so requires
                                 shall:-

                                 (a)    mean as  appropriate an 'A' option, 
                                        a 'B' Option, a 'C' Option or a 'D'
                                        Option; and

                                 (b)    includes New  Options granted as
                                        consideration  for  the release of Old
                                        Options in  accordance with Clause 5;

         "Price"                  12.5 pence per Share;

         "Remuneration Committee" the committee consisting  wholly or mainly of
                                  non-executive  directors of the Grantor and
                                  chaired by a non-executive director;

         "Share"                  an ordinary share of 5p in the capital of the
                                  Grantor;

         "Subsisting Option"      an Option to the extent that it has not been
                                  exercised, lapsed or cancelled;

         "Tax                     Liability" any liability of
                                  the  Grantor or any company
                                  which  Controls or is under
                                  the  Control of the Grantor
                                  to  account  for any income
                                  tax   National    Insurance
                                  contributions  or other tax
                                  arising in  relation to the
                                  grant,  exercise  or  other
                                  dealing with or in relation
                                  to an Option;

         "Taxes Act"              the Income and Corporation Taxes Act 1988;

1.2      Any reference in this Deed to any provision of any Act of Parliament or
         any subordinate legislation (as defined in the Interpretation Act 1978)
         made  thereto  shall  be  deemed  to be a  reference  to  such  Act  of
         Parliament or subordinate legislation as amended modified or re-enacted
         (whether  before or after the date  hereof)  and any  reference  to any
         provision of any such Act or subordinate legislation shall also include
         where appropriate any provision of which it is a re-enactment  (whether
         with or without modification).

1.3      In this Deed words incorporating the masculine gender shall include the
         feminine and neuter genders and words incorporating the singular number
         shall include the plural and vice versa.

1.4      Unless otherwise  stated  references to Clauses are references to
         Clauses of this Deed.

1.5      The Index and Clause headings are for ease of reference only and shall
         not affect the construction or  interpretation  of this
         Deed.

1.6      References to the parties hereto include their respective successors in
         title assigns estates and legal personal representatives.

1.7      References to writing shall include  typewriting  printing  lithography
         photography telex and facsimile messages and other modes of reproducing
         words in a legible and non-transitory form.

2        OPTIONS

         The Grantor  hereby  grants to the Grantee four  Options in  accordance
         with the terms of this Deed to  subscribe  for  1,250,000  Shares under
         each Option at the Price and such Options are hereby  designated  as an
         'A' Option, a 'B' Option, a 'C' Option and a 'D' Option respectively.

3        EXERCISE AND LAPSE OF OPTIONS

3.1      The exercise of an Option shall be subject to the following conditions:

         3.1.1    the 'A'  Option  may be  exercised  on or  after  the  seventh
                  consecutive  Dealing Day on which,  but not until,  the Market
                  Value of a Share is 25 pence per Share;

         3.1.2    the 'B'  Option  may be  exercised  on or  after  the  seventh
                  consecutive  Dealing Day on which,  but not until,  the Market
                  Value of a Share is 50 pence per Share;

         3.1.3    the 'C'  Option  may be  exercised  on or  after  the  seventh
                  consecutive  Dealing Day on which,  but not until,  the Market
                  Value of a Share is 75 pence per Share; and

         3.1.4    the 'D'  Option  may be  exercised  on or  after  the  seventh
                  consecutive  Dealing Day on which,  but not until,  the Market
                  Value of a Share is 100 pence per Share

         provided that the Market Value of a Share on any Dealing Day before 1st
         January  1999 shall be ignored in applying  the above  conditions  and,
         subject to Clauses 3.5, 3.6, and 5, an Option shall not be  exercisable
         before  the  third  anniversary  of the  date  of  this  Deed.  For the
         avoidance of doubt an Option shall be  exercisable  in accordance  with
         this Deed if the  condition  under this Clause 3.1 has been  previously
         satisfied  regardless  of the  Market  Value  of a Share on the date on
         which the Option is exercised.

3.2      Subject to this  Clause 3 and Clauses 4 and 5 an Option may be
         exercised at any time on or after the third  anniversary  and
         before the tenth anniversary of the date of this Deed.

3.3      An Option shall not be exercisable on or after the tenth anniversary of
         the date of this Deed  under  any  circumstances  whatsoever  and every
         Subsisting  Option shall lapse on the tenth  anniversary of the date of
         Deed.

3.4      The right to exercise an Option shall  terminate  immediately  upon the
         Grantee ceasing to be a director of the Grantor except
         where Clauses 3.5 or 3.6 apply.

3.5      Subject   to  Clause   3.3  where  the   Grantee   dies  his   personal
         representatives may exercise any unexercised Options held by him within
         12 months of the date of death.

3.6      Where the Grantee ceases to be an director of the Grantor:

         3.6.1    by reason of injury or disability to the satisfaction of the
                  Remuneration Committee; or

         3.6.2    in any other  circumstances the Remuneration  Committee in its
                  absolute  discretion  decides not later than 30 days after the
                  date on which  the  Grantee  ceases  to be a  director  of the
                  Grantor to allow the Grantee to exercise any Subsisting Option
                  then held by him

         any Subsisting Option may be exercised no later than 6 months after the
         date of such cessation.

3.7      An Option shall lapse upon the earliest occurrence of any of the
         following events insofar as it has not been exercised:

         3.7.1    the tenth anniversary of the date of this Deed;

         3.7.2    the first anniversary of the Grantee's death;

         3.7.3    the expiry of 6 months from the date on which the Grantee 
                  ceases to be an a director of the Grantor where Clause 3.6
                  applies;

         3.7.4    the earliest date upon which the Option is expressed to lapse
                  under Clause 5;

         3.7.5    the Grantee being adjudicated bankrupt.

4        PROCEDURE ON THE EXERCISE OF AN OPTION

4.1      No Option shall be exercisable save in accordance with the then current
         Model Code for Securities Transactions by Directors of Listed Companies
         issued by the London Stock Exchange.

4.2      An Option may be exercised in whole or in part.

4.3      An Option shall be exercised by the Grantee:-

         4.3.1 giving  notice in writing to the Grantor in  accordance  with the
               provisions of Clause 11; and

         4.3.2 delivering  to the  Grantor a banker's  draft in favour of the
               Grantor drawn on a central London  clearing bank in respect of
               the  aggregate  Price for the  Shares in  respect of which the
               Option is then exercised.

4.4      Shares  shall be allotted  and issued  pursuant to a notice of exercise
         within 42 days of the exercise date. Save for any rights  determined by
         reference to a date  preceding the date of allotment  such Shares shall
         rank pari passu with the other shares of the same class in issue at the
         date of  allotment  and will be  subject to all the  provisions  of the
         Articles of Association of the Grantor  relating to voting,  dividends,
         transfer or otherwise.

4.5      Where relevant, within 28 days after Shares have been allotted pursuant
         the  exercise of an Option the Grantor  shall make  application  to the
         Council of the London Stock  Exchange for the admission to the Official
         List of the Shares allotted and issued following such exercise.

4.6      This Deed is subject to the  condition  that in the event of an Grantee
         ceasing to be a director of the Grantor or otherwise ceasing to provide
         his services to any member of the Group (for whatever  reason) he shall
         not be  entitled  to  any  compensation  whatsoever  by  reason  of any
         termination  or  alteration of rights or  expectations  under this Deed
         whether  such  compensation  is  claimed by way of damages or breach of
         contract or for loss of office or  otherwise  howsoever.  Rights  under
         this Deed are entirely  separate from any right or  entitlement  he may
         have and from his terms or  conditions  of office and rights under this
         Deed  shall in no  respects  whatever  affect in any way the  Grantee's
         rights or  entitlement or terms or conditions of any office held by the
         Grantee or any agreement under which the Grantee  provides his services
         to the Grantor.

5        TAKEOVERS AND LIQUIDATIONS

5.1      If any person obtains Control of the Grantor as a result of making a
         general offer:

         5.1.1    to acquire the whole of the issued  ordinary  share capital of
                  the Grantor  which is made on a  condition  such that if it is
                  satisfied the person making the offer will have Control of the
                  Grantor; or

         5.1.2    to acquire all the shares in the Grantor which are of the same
                  class as the Shares

         then  subject  to  the  remaining  provisions  of  this  Clause  5  any
         Subsisting Option may be exercised within the Appropriate Period and to
         the extent that it has not been exercised by the end of the Appropriate
         Period  the  Option  shall  lapse  immediately  upon  the  end  of  the
         Appropriate Period.

5.2      In the event that notice is given to the shareholders of the Grantor of
         a resolution to approve (subject to sanction by the Court) a compromise
         or  arrangement  proposed for the purposes of or in  connection  with a
         scheme for the  reconstruction  of the Grantor or its amalgamation with
         any other company or companies pursuant to Section 425 of the Act ("the
         Reconstruction  Scheme")  then the Grantee may serve notice to exercise
         his Subsisting Options at any time during the Appropriate Period and to
         the  extent  that an Option  has not been  exercised  by the end of the
         Appropriate  Period  it  shall  lapse  immediately  upon the end of the
         Appropriate Period.

5.3      If any  person  becomes  bound or  entitled  to  acquire  Shares in the
         Grantor  under  Sections  428 to 430F of the Act  then  any  Subsisting
         Option may be exercised at any time during the  Appropriate  Period and
         to the  extent  that  it  has  not  been  exercised  by the  end of the
         Appropriate  Period the Option shall lapse  immediately upon the end of
         the Appropriate Period.

5.4      If as a result of the events  specified in Clauses 5.1 or 5.2 a company
         has obtained Control of the Grantor or if a company has become bound or
         entitled as mentioned in Clause 5.3 the Board shall seek the  agreement
         of that other company ("the Acquiring  Company") or a company which has
         Control over the  Acquiring  Company and if such  agreement is obtained
         each  unexercised  Option  ("Old  Option")  may within the  Appropriate
         Period  applicable to the relevant Clause be released in  consideration
         of the grant of a new Option  ("New  Option") to acquire  shares in the
         Acquiring  Company  or a company  which has  Control  of the  Acquiring
         Company which satisfies the following conditions:

         5.4.1    it is a right to acquire  such number of such shares as has on
                  acquisition of the New Option an aggregate  Market Value equal
                  to the aggregate Market Value of the Shares subject to the Old
                  Option on its disposal;

         5.4.2    it has a subscription  price per share such that the aggregate
                  price payable on complete  exercise equals the aggregate price
                  which would have been payable on complete  exercise of the Old
                  Option; and

         5.4.3 it is otherwise identical in terms to the Old Option.

         The New Option shall for all other  purposes of this Deed be treated as
         having   been   acquired  at  the  same  time  as  the  Old  Option  in
         consideration  of the  release of which it is granted and where any New
         Options are granted  pursuant to this Clause 5.4 Clauses 3, 4, 5, and 6
         and all definitions in Clause 1.1 as appropriate in those Clauses shall
         in relation to the New Options be  construed  as if  references  to the
         Grantor and to the Shares were  references  to the company  whose share
         capital  includes shares over which the New Option has been granted and
         to the shares in that company. Where in accordance with this Clause 5.4
         Old Options are released and New Options  granted the New Options shall
         not be exercisable in accordance with Clauses 5.1, 5.2 and 5.3 above by
         virtue of the event by reason of which the New Options were granted.

5.5      In the event that notice is given to the shareholders of the Grantor of
         a resolution to be proposed for the voluntary winding up of the Grantor
         the Grantee may serve notice to exercise, his Subsisting Options at any
         time up to the passing of the resolution  provided that any such notice
         to exercise  shall only be effective if the  resolution  is passed.  If
         such  resolution is duly passed all Options  shall,  to the extent that
         they have not been exercised, lapse.

5.6      For the  purposes of this Clause 5 other than Clause 5.4 a person shall
         be deemed to have obtained Control of a Grantor if he and others acting
         in concert with him have together obtained Control of it.

5.7      The exercise of an Option  pursuant to the preceding  provisions of
         this Clause 5 shall be subject to the provisions of Clause 4.

6        VARIATION OF SHARE CAPITAL

         In the event of any  variation  in the share  capital of the Grantor by
         way of capitalization or rights issue or any consolidation sub-division
         or  reduction  of capital or  otherwise  by the  Grantor  the number of
         Shares  subject to any  Option  and the Price for each of those  Shares
         shall be adjusted by the Remuneration  Committee subject (except in the
         case of a capitalization) to written  confirmation by the Auditors that
         in their opinion such adjustment is fair and reasonable provided that:

         6.1      the aggregate amount payable on the exercise of an Option in
                  full is  not increased; and

         6.2      the Price for a Share is not reduced below its nominal value.

7        TAXATION

7.1      If a Tax Liability  arises in respect of an Option the Grantor shall be
         entitled to deduct to the extent  permitted by law such  amount(s) from
         any payment due to be made by the Grantor or any company which controls
         or is  controlled  by the  Grantor to or in  respect of the  Grantee in
         respect of that Option during the same calendar month or other relevant
         period in which the event occurs or in any subsequent calendar month or
         such  relevant  period  in  order  to  satisfy  and  discharge  the Tax
         Liability  whether  or not such  payment  is of an  income  or  capital
         nature.

7.2      If and to the extent the Tax Liability  referred to in Clause 7.1 is of
         income tax which  exceeds the amount from which  deductions  in respect
         thereof  can be made in any one  period  referred  to in Clause  7.1 in
         respect of the Grantee,  the Grantee shall pay or reimburse the Grantor
         for the amount of the excess on demand or within  such period as may be
         specified in any written notice given by the Grantor.

7.3      Where a Tax  Liability  arises in respect of the exercise of an Option,
         the Board may,  without  prejudice to the Grantor's rights under Clause
         7.1 and Clause  7.2, by written  notice to the Grantee  nominate as his
         bare  trustee  any person (the "Bare  Trustee")  to sell such number of
         Shares  issued  upon the  exercise  of the Option as may be required in
         order to discharge the Tax Liability and any other liability (including
         costs)  connected  with the said sale and the Bare Trustee shall pay an
         amount  equal  to the  Tax  Liability  to  the  Grantor  and  otherwise
         discharge any other said  liability to the extent that the net proceeds
         from the said sale permit.

8        COSTS

         Each of the parties  shall bear and pay its own legal  accountancy  and
         other fees and expenses incurred in the preparation and  implementation
         of this Deed.

9        ASSIGNMENT

         This Deed shall be binding upon each party's  personal  representatives
         and  successors in title but the benefit of this Deed shall be personal
         to the Grantee and shall not be assignable by the Grantee.

10       TIME FOR PERFORMANCE

         Any date or period mentioned in any Clause of this Deed (other than any
         reference to the tenth  anniversary of the date hereof) may be extended
         by mutual agreement between the parties.

11       NOTICES

         Any  notice to be given  pursuant  to the  terms of this Deed  shall be
         given in writing to the party due to receive  such  notice (in the case
         of a company)  at its  registered  office  from time to time or (in the
         case of an individual) at his such party's address set out in this Deed
         or such other  address as may have been notified for the purpose to the
         other parties  hereto in accordance  with this Clause.  Notice shall be
         delivered  personally or sent by first class pre-paid recorded delivery
         or registered post (air mail if overseas) or by facsimile  transmission
         and shall be deemed to be given in the case of delivery  personally  on
         delivery  and in the case of posting  (in the  absence of  evidence  of
         earlier  receipt) 48 hours  after  posting (6 days if sent by air mail)
         and  in  the  case  of  facsimile  transmission  on  completion  of the
         transmission.

12       GOVERNING LAW

         This Deed shall be governed by and construed in accordance with English
         Law and the parties  hereby submit for all purposes in connection  with
         this Deed to the exclusive jurisdiction of the English Courts.

13       COUNTERPARTS

         This Deed may be executed in any number of  counterparts  each of which
         when executed by one or more of the parties hereto shall  constitute an
         original but all of which shall constitute one and the same instrument.

14       VARIATIONS

         No  variation  of this Deed shall be valid  unless it is in writing and
signed by or on behalf of each of the parties hereto.


THIS DEED has been duly executed by the parties or their duly authorised
representatives


<PAGE>


EXECUTED (but not delivered         )
until the date hereof) as a         )
deed by Huntingdon Life             )
Sciences Group plc acting by        )


         Director


         Director/Secretary



EXECUTED (but not delivered         )
until the date hereof) as a         )
deed by the said  ANDREW H )
BAKER in the presence of:  )

Name:

Address:


Occupation:


</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-3
<SEQUENCE>21
<TEXT>


DATED                                                          1998



















                       THE HUNTINGDON LIFE SCIENCES GROUP

                         UNAPPROVED SHARE OPTION SCHEME



















                                 Charles Russell
                              8-10 New Fetter Lane
                                 London EC4A 1RS

                               Ref: TL/MC/25407/3


<PAGE>


                                      INDEX


                          (for reference purposes only)


Rule     Heading                                                Page Number


1.       DEFINITIONS AND INTERPRETATION                              1

2.       GRANT OF OPTIONS                                            6

3.       SCHEME LIMITS                                               9

4.       PERSONAL LIMITS                                             9

5.       EXERCISE AND LAPSE OF OPTIONS                              10

6.       TAKEOVERS AND LIQUIDATIONS                                 12

7.       VARIATION OF SHARE CAPITAL                                 13

8.       MANNER OF EXERCISE OF OPTIONS                              14

9.       TAXATION                                                   15

10.      ADMINISTRATION AMENDMENT AND TERMINATION                   16

SCHEDULE 1                                                          18
- ----------

SCHEDULE 2                                                          20
- ----------

SCHEDULE 3                                                          21
- ----------



<PAGE>



                   RULES OF THE HUNTINGDON LIFE SCIENCES GROUP

                         UNAPPROVED SHARE OPTION SCHEME


                             Adopted on       1998



<PAGE>



1.   DEFINITIONS AND INTERPRETATION

1.1  In these Rules the following words and expressions shall (except
     where the context otherwise requires) have the following meanings:

     "Act"                         the Companies Act 1985;

     "Announcement Date"           the date on which the annual or half-yearly
                                   results of the Company are announced;

     "Appropriate Period"          (i)  if the circumstances in Rule 6.1 apply
                                        the period of six months beginning
                                        with the date on which  the  person
                                        making  the  offer has obtained
                                        Control   of   the Company   and  any
                                        condition  subject to which the offer
                                        is made  has  been satisfied;

                                  (ii)   if the  circumstances  in
                                         Rule 6.2 apply the  period   of  six
                                         months  beginning  with  the date on
                                         which  the Reconstruction
                                         Scheme  is sanctioned  by the Court;

                                  (iii)  if  the  circumstances  in
                                         Rule 6.3 apply the  period during
                                         which  the  person remains  bound or
                                         entitled  to  acquire any shares
                                         in the Company;

         "Associated Company"      the same meaning as in Section 416 of the
                                   Taxes Act;

         "Auditors"                the auditors for the time being of the
                                   Company  appointed  pursuant to section 384
                                   of the Act and acting as experts and not as
                                   arbitrators;

         "Board"                   the Board of  directors  for the time being
                                   of the Company or a duly appointed committee
                                   thereof at which a quorum is present;

         "Company"                 Huntingdon  Life  Sciences  Group plc 
                                   (registered  in  England  and Wales number
                                   502370);

         "Company                  Share  Schemes"  the Scheme
                                   and any other share  option
                                   or  profit   sharing  share
                                   scheme of the Company or of
                                   any   Associated    Company
                                   whether or not  approved by
                                   the Inland Revenue;

         "Control"                 the same meaning as in  Section 840 of the
                                   Taxes Act and  the expression
                                   "controlled" shall be construed accordingly;

         "Date of Adoption"        1998 being the date of adoption of this
                                   Scheme by the Company;

         "Date of Grant"           in relation to any Option means the date on
                                   which the Option is granted or was or is to
                                   be granted under the Scheme;

         "Dealing Day"             a day on which the London Stock Exchange is
                                   open for business;

         "Eligible Participant"    (a) an employee  who is a director of a 
                                       Participating  Company who is required 
                                       by his contract of  employment to devote
                                       substantially  the whole of his working
                                       time to  the business of the Group; or

                                   (b)  any  other  employee  of  a
                                        Participating  Company  who
                                        is required by his contract
                                        of   employment  to  devote
                                        substantially  the whole of
                                        his  working  time  to  the
                                        business of the Group;

         "Expected                      Retirement  Date"  the date
                                        on   which   an    Eligible
                                        Participant  is expected to
                                        retire in  accordance  with
                                        the  terms of his  contract
                                        of   employment    with   a
                                        Participating Company;

         "Founder Option"               an option granted under Rule 2.1 as
                                        appropriate an 'A' Option, a 'B' Option,
                                        a 'C' Option or a 'D' Option;

         "Group"                        the Company and company under the
                                        Control of the Company;

         "London Stock Exchange"        the London Stock Exchange Limited;

         "Market Value"                 in respect of any Share on any day means
                                        either:

                                       (a)      (when  on that day
                                                the shares of that
                                                class  are  listed
                                                on  the   official
                                                list of the London
                                                Stock    Exchange)
                                                the middle  market
                                                quotation  of such
                                                a Share as derived
                                                from   the   Daily
                                                Official  List  of
                                                the  London  Stock
                                                Exchange  for  the
                                                Dealing        Day
                                                immediately
                                                preceding     that
                                                day; or

                                       (b)      in all other cases
                                                the  market  value
                                                of such a Share as
                                                determined      in
                                                accordance    with
                                                the  provisions of
                                                part  VIII  of the
                                                Taxation        of
                                                Chargeable   Gains
                                                Act 1992;

         "Option"                        a right  to  subscribe  for
                                         Shares  granted  (or  to be
                                         granted) in accordance with
                                         these  Rules  and where the
                                         context so  requires  shall
                                         include  a  Founder  Option
                                         and New Options  granted as
                                         consideration    for    the
                                         release  of Old  Options in
                                         accordance with Rule 6;

         "Option Agreement"              the  agreement  dated [ ] 1998 and 
                                         made  between  the  Company  (1) and
                                         Andrew H Baker(2);

         "Option                         Holder"  any person who has
                                         been  granted  an Option or
                                         where the context  requires
                                         a person becoming  entitled
                                         to an Option in consequence
                                         of the  death of an  Option
                                         Holder;

         "Option                         Period"  in  respect of any
                                         Option,    other   than   a
                                         Founder  Option  the period
                                         between  the  Date of Grant
                                         and the first date on which
                                         the     Option      becomes
                                         exercisable  in  accordance
                                         with    the     Performance
                                         Conditions   set   by   the
                                         Remuneration      Committee
                                         pursuant to Rule 2.7;

         "Participating                  Company"  the  Company  and
                                         any other  company of which
                                         the Company has Control and
                                         which is for the time being
                                         authorised      by      the
                                         Remuneration  Committee  to
                                         participate in this Scheme;

         "Performance Conditions"        the conditions imposed by the
                                         Remuneration  Committee in respect of
                                         an Option,  other than a Founder
                                         Option, pursuant to Rule 2.7;

         "Remuneration                   Committee"   the  committee
                                         consisting wholly or mainly
                                         of non-executive  directors
                                         of the  Company and chaired
                                         by a non-executive director
                                         and      having      formal
                                         responsibility    for   the
                                         operation of the Scheme;

         "Rules"                         the rules of the Scheme as set out
                                         herein and as amended from time to
                                         time;

         "Scheme"                        the employee  share option scheme 
                                         constituted  and governed by these
                                         Rules as from time to time amended;

         "Share"                         an ordinary share of 5p in the capital
                                         of the Company;

         "Subscription                    Price"  the  price at which
                                          each  Share  subject  to an
                                          Option may be  acquired  on
                                          the exercise of that Option
                                          being (subject to Rules 6.4
                                          and  7) in  the  case  of a
                                          Founder  Option  12.5 pence
                                          per   Share  and  in  every
                                          other  case not lower  than
                                          the higher of:

                                          (i) the nominal value of a Share; and

                                          (ii) the Market Value of a Share on
                                               the Date of Grant;

         "Subsisting Option"              an Option to the extent that it has
                                          not been exercised, lapsed or
                                          cancelled;

         "Tax                             Liability" any liability of
                                          the  Company or any company
                                          which  Controls or is under
                                          the  Control of the Company
                                          to  account  for any income
                                          tax   National    Insurance
                                          contributions  or other tax
                                          arising in  relation to the
                                          grant,  exercise  or  other
                                          dealing with or in relation
                                          to an Option;

         "Taxes Act"                      the Income and Corporation Taxes Act
                                          1988;

         "Total                           Remuneration"  in  relation
                                          to any Eligible Participant
                                          and  in  any  period  where
                                          that  Eligible  Participant
                                          is an  employee  or officer
                                          of a Participating  Company
                                          the remuneration (exclusive
                                          of  benefits  in kind) paid
                                          or payable to that Eligible
                                          Participant      by     the
                                          Participating  Company  and
                                          all Associated Companies of
                                          that Participating  Company
                                          in that period; and

         "Year of Assessment"             a year beginning on any 6 April and
                                          ending on the following 5 April.

1.2  Any  reference in these Rules to any provision of any Act of Parliament
     or any subordinate  legislation  made pursuant to any Act of Parliament
     shall  be  deemed  to be a  reference  to  such  Act of  Parliament  or
     subordinate  legislation  as amended  modified or  re-enacted  (whether
     before or after the date hereof).

1.3  In these Rules words  incorporating  the masculine  gender only include
     the feminine and neuter  genders and words  incorporating  the singular
     number only include the plural and vice versa.

1.4  Rule headings are for ease of reference only and do not affect the
     construction or interpretation of these Rules.

1.5  References to writing shall include  typewriting  printing  lithography
     photography and facsimile messages and other modes of reproducing words
     in a legible and non-transitory form.

2.   GRANT OF OPTIONS

2.1  Subject to the limitations and conditions  hereinafter  contained,  the
     Remuneration  Committee  shall on or as soon as reasonably  practicable
     after the Date of Adoption grant,  without  consideration  four Options
     each at the  Subscription  Price and over an equal  number of Shares as
     shall be  determined  by the  Remuneration  Committee to such  Eligible
     Participants  selected at its  discretion and each such Option shall be
     designated  as an 'A'  Option,  a 'B'  Option,  a 'C'  Option and a 'D'
     Option  respectively  provided that no Founder  Option shall be granted
     after 31 December 1998.

2.2  The exercise of a Founder Option shall be subject to the following
     conditions:

      2.2.1    the  'A'  Option  shall  become  exercisable  on  the  seventh
               consecutive  Dealing Day on which,  but not until,  the Market
               Value of a Share is 25 pence per Share;

      2.2.2    the  'B'  Option  shall  become  exercisable  on  the  seventh
               consecutive  Dealing Day on which,  but not until,  the Market
               Value of a Share is 50 pence per Share;

      2.2.3    the  'C'  Option  shall  become  exercisable  on  the  seventh
               consecutive  Dealing Day on which,  but not until,  the Market
               Value of a Share is 75 pence per Share; and

      2.2.4    the  'D'  Option  shall  become  exercisable  on  the  seventh
               consecutive  Dealing Day on which,  but not until,  the Market
                  Value of a Share is 100 pence per Share

       provided that the Market Value of a Share on any Dealing Day before 1st
       January  1999 shall be ignored in applying  the above  conditions  and,
       subject to Rules 5.4, 5.5, 6, a Founder Option shall not be exercisable
       before the third  anniversary of a Date of Grant.  For the avoidance of
       doubt a Founder  Option shall be  exercisable  in  accordance  with the
       rules of this Scheme if the condition applicable to that Founder Option
       under this Rule 2.2 has been  previously  satisfied  regardless  of the
       Market  Value of a Share on the date on which  the  Founder  Option  is
       exercised.

2.3    Subject  to  Rule  2.1  the  limitations  and  conditions   hereinafter
       contained and unless  prohibited by law the  Remuneration  Committee on
       behalf of the Company may, in its absolute discretion,  within a period
       of 42  days  immediately  following  an  Announcement  Date  or Date of
       Adoption grant without  consideration Options to any number of Eligible
       Participants provided that:

         2.3.1    no Eligible Participant shall be entitled as of right to the
                  grant of an Option;

         2.3.2    no Option may be granted to an Eligible Participant within
                  2 years preceding his Expected Retirement Date; and

         2.3.3    no Option  may be granted under this Scheme after the tenth
                  anniversary of the Date of Adoption.

2.4   An Option shall be granted by a resolution of the Remuneration Committee.

2.5   Notwithstanding  the provisions of Rule 2.3 the Remuneration  Committee
      may grant  Options  outside  the 42 day  period  mentioned  therein  in
      circumstances   which  the  Remuneration   Committee  in  its  absolute
      discretion  deems  sufficiently  exceptional  to  justify  the grant of
      Options at that time.

2.6   An Option  Holder may,  within a period of twenty one days  immediately
      following  the Date of Grant  renounce  by  notice  in  writing  to the
      Company his Option in respect of all or any part of the Shares  subject
      of the Option.

2.7   Each Option,  other than a Founder Option, shall be granted so that its
      exercise  shall be subject to such objective  conditions  ("Performance
      Conditions")  (not  inconsistent with the provisions of the Scheme ) as
      the  Remuneration  Committee may in its absolute  discretion  think fit
      provided that:

      2.7.1  such conditions  shall be designed to ensure that the exercise
             of  an  Option  is  made  subject  to  the   attainment  of  a
             significant  and  sustained   improvement  in  the  underlying
             financial performance of the Company during the Option Period;

      2.7.2  such conditions shall not be inconsistent  with the provisions
             of the Scheme and may be waived or amended if an event  occurs
             which causes the Remuneration  Committee to consider that such
             Performance  Conditions could not fairly or reasonably be met,
             provided  that any amended  conditions  should be neither more
             difficult nor easier to satisfy than the original  Performance
             Conditions   were   intended  to  be  at  the  time  of  their
             imposition; and

      2.7.3  such conditions shall extend over a continuous period of at least
             three years.

2.8  The  Remuneration  Committee  may in  its  absolute  discretion  impose
     conditions  on the grant of an  Option,  other  than a Founder  Option,
     restricting  the  number of Shares in respect of which an Option may be
     exercised on any one occasion.

2.9  As soon as reasonably  practicable  after Options have been granted the
     Board shall issue an Option  certificate  substantially in the form set
     out in Schedule 2 in respect of each Option which shall specify:

     2.9.1    the number of Shares comprised in the Option;

     2.9.2    the Date of Grant;

     2.9.3    the Subscription Price;

     2.9.4    save in the case of a Founder Option, details of the Performance
              Conditions; and

     2.9.5    the last date upon which  notice to exercise the Option may be
              given, being not later than the day immediately  preceding the
              tenth anniversary of the Date of Grant.

2.10  An  Option  shall  be  personal  to the  Option  Holder  and may not be
      transferred,  assigned,  charged,  pledged or otherwise  disposed of or
      dealt with. Any purported transfer, assignment, charge, pledge or other
      disposal  or dealing  with the Option  shall  cause the Option to lapse
      forthwith and each Option  certificate  shall carry a statement to this
      effect.

3.    SCHEME LIMITS

3.1   No Option, other than a Founder Option, shall be granted if immediately
      following  such  grant it would  cause the  aggregate  of the number of
      Shares  which  have been or remain  to be  issued  on the  exercise  of
      Options granted under the Scheme,  excluding  Founder Options,  and the
      number of shares of the Company  which have been or remain to be issued
      pursuant to rights  granted under any other Company Share Scheme in the
      preceding  10 years but,  for the  avoidance  of doubt,  excluding  any
      rights  granted  under the Option  Agreement,  to exceed such number of
      shares as represents 10 per cent of the issued  ordinary  share capital
      of the Company immediately prior to the Date of Grant.

3.2   No Option, other than a Founder Option, shall be granted if immediately
      following  such  grant it would  cause the  aggregate  of the number of
      Shares  which  have been or remain  to be  issued  on the  exercise  of
      Options granted under the Scheme,  excluding  Founder Options,  and the
      number of shares of the Company  which have been or remain to be issued
      pursuant to rights  granted in the  preceding  10 years under any other
      share option scheme (other than a savings  related share option scheme)
      but, for the avoidance of doubt, excluding any rights granted under the
      Option  Agreement,  to exceed such number of shares as represents 5 per
      cent of the issued  ordinary  share capital of the Company  immediately
      prior to the Date of Grant.

3.3   The  aggregate  number of Shares  that may be the  subject  of  Founder
      Options  granted  under the  Scheme and any  rights  granted  under the
      Option Agreement shall not exceed 14,550,000 Shares.

4.    PERSONAL LIMITS

4.1   Save in the case of a Founder  Option,  the number of Shares in respect
      of which an Option  is  granted  to an  Eligible  Participant  shall be
      limited, and the Option shall take effect so and to the extent that the
      aggregate  Market  Value of the Shares he may acquire  pursuant to that
      Option when added to the aggregate  Market Value of Subsisting  Options
      previously  granted  under the Scheme  (which for the  purposes of this
      Rule 4.1 shall also include cancelled Options) to him and the aggregate
      market value of Shares he may acquire pursuant to any other unexercised
      rights  obtained  under any other  Company  Share Scheme  (other than a
      savings  related share option scheme or a profit sharing  scheme) shall
      not exceed or further  exceed  four  times the  Eligible  Participant's
      Total  Remuneration  for the Year of Assessment  current at the Date of
      Grant.

4.2   For the  purposes of this Rule 4 Market  Value of Shares  shall mean in
      the case of rights granted under other Company Share Schemes the market
      value of the shares  subject to such rights at the time of the grant of
      the right as calculated  in  accordance  with the rules of the relevant
      Company Share Scheme.

5.    EXERCISE AND LAPSE OF OPTIONS

5.1   Subject to this Rule 5 and Rules 6 and 8 an Option may be exercised at
      any time on or after the third  anniversary  and before
      the tenth anniversary of its Date of Grant.

5.2   An Option shall not be exercisable on or after the tenth anniversary of
      its  Date  of  Grant  under  any  circumstances  whatsoever  and  every
      Subsisting  Option shall lapse on the tenth  anniversary of its Date of
      Grant.

5.3   The right to exercise an Option shall  terminate  immediately  upon the
      Option Holder ceasing to be an Eligible  Participant except where Rules
      5.4 or 5.5 apply .

5.4   Subject  to  Rule  5.2  where  an  Option   Holder  dies  his  personal
      representatives may exercise any unexercised Options held by him within
      12 months of the date of death.

5.5   Where an Option Holder ceases to be an Eligible Participant:

      5.5.1  by reason of:

             5.5.1.1  injury, disability or pregnancy; or

             5.5.1.2  redundancy;

             5.5.1.3  retirement on or after the Expected Retirement Date;

             5.5.1.4  the company by which the Option Holder is employed
                      ceasing to be a Participating Company; or

             5.5.1.5  the  transfer  of the  business in which the
                      Option  Holder is employed to a person other
                      than a Participating Company; or

        5.5.2   where the  circumstances are not as described in Rules 5.5.1.1
                to 5.5.1.5  and the  Remuneration  Committee  in its  absolute
                discretion  decides  not later  than 30 days after the date on
                which the Option Holder  ceases to be an Eligible  Participant
                to allow that Option Holder to exercise any Subsisting  Option
                then held by him

               any Subsisting Option may be exercised no later than 6 months
               after the date of such cessation.

5.6  Save where Rules 5.4,  5.5 or 6 apply the  exercise of any Option shall
     be conditional  upon the relevant  Performance  Conditions  having been
     fulfilled to the satisfaction of the  Remuneration  Committee or in the
     case of a Founder Option, subject to the conditions of Rule 2.2.

5.7  The Company shall notify each Option Holder in writing on each occasion
     that the accounts of the Company are distributed to its shareholders as
     to whether or not the  Performance  Conditions  have been  satisfied in
     respect of the then immediately preceding 3 year period.

5.8  An Option shall lapse upon the earliest occurrence of any of the following
     events insofar as it has not been exercised:

     5.8.1  the tenth anniversary of the Date of Grant;

     5.8.2  the first anniversary of the Option Holder's death;

     5.8.3  the expiry of 6 months from the date on which an Option  Holder
            ceases to be an Eligible  Participant  where Rule 5.5 applies;

     5.8.4  the earliest date upon which the Option is  expressed  to lapse
            under Rule 6;

     5.8.5  the date of an event specified in Rule 2.10; or

     5.8.6  the Option Holder being adjudicated bankrupt.

6.   TAKEOVERS AND LIQUIDATIONS

6.1  If any person obtains Control of the Company as a result of making a
     general offer:

     6.1.1    to acquire the whole of the issued  ordinary  share capital of
              the Company  which is made on a  condition  such that if it is
              satisfied the person making the offer will have Control of the
              Company; or

     6.1.2    to acquire all the shares in the Company which are of the same
              class as the Shares

     then subject to the remaining  provisions of this Rule 6 any Subsisting
     Option may be exercised within the Appropriate Period and to the extent
     that it has not been exercised by the end of the Appropriate Period the
     Option shall lapse immediately upon the end of the Appropriate Period.

6.2  In the event that notice is given to the shareholders of the Company of
     a resolution to approve (subject to sanction by the Court) a compromise
     or  arrangement  proposed for the purposes of or in  connection  with a
     scheme for the  reconstruction  of the Company or its amalgamation with
     any other company or companies pursuant to Section 425 of the Act ("the
     Reconstruction  Scheme")  then any Option  Holder  may serve  notice to
     exercise  his  Subsisting  Options at any time  during the  Appropriate
     Period and to the extent that an Option has not been  exercised  by the
     end of the Appropriate  Period it shall lapse  immediately upon the end
     of the Appropriate Period.

6.3  If any  person  becomes  bound or  entitled  to  acquire  Shares in the
     Company  under  Sections  428 to 430F of the Act  then  any  Subsisting
     Option may be exercised at any time during the  Appropriate  Period and
     to the  extent  that  it  has  not  been  exercised  by the  end of the
     Appropriate  Period the Option shall lapse  immediately upon the end of
     the Appropriate Period.

6.4 If as a result of the  events  specified  in Rules 6.1 or 6.2 a company
    has obtained Control of the Company or if a company has become bound or
    entitled as mentioned in Rule 6.3 the Board shall seek the agreement of
    that other  company  ("the  Acquiring  Company") or a company which has
    Control over the  Acquiring  Company and if such  agreement is obtained
    each  unexercised  Option  ("Old  Option")  may within the  Appropriate
    Period  applicable to the relevant Rule be released in consideration of
    the grant of a new  Option  ("New  Option")  to  acquire  shares in the
    Acquiring  Company  or a company  which has  Control  of the  Acquiring
    Company which satisfies the following conditions:

    6.4.1    it is a right to acquire  such number of such shares as has on
             acquisition of the New Option an aggregate  Market Value equal
             to the aggregate Market Value of the Shares subject to the Old
             Option on its disposal;

    6.4.2    it has a subscription  price per share such that the aggregate
             price payable on complete  exercise equals the aggregate price
             which would have been payable on complete  exercise of the Old
             Option; and

    6.4.3 it is otherwise identical in terms to the Old Option.

     The New Option  shall for all other  purposes of this Scheme be treated
     as  having  been  acquired  at the  same  time  as the  Old  Option  in
     consideration  of the  release of which it is granted and where any New
     Options are  granted  pursuant to this Rule 6.4 Rules 5, 6, 7, 8 and 10
     and all  definitions  in Rule 1 as  appropriate in those Rules shall in
     relation  to the New  Options  be  construed  as if  references  to the
     Company and to the Shares were  references  to the company  whose share
     capital  includes shares over which the New Option has been granted and
     to the shares in that company but references to a Participating Company
     shall  continue to be  construed as if  references  to the Company were
     references to Huntingdon  Life Sciences  Group plc. Where in accordance
     with this Rule 6.4 Old Options are released and New Options granted the
     New Options shall not be exercisable in accordance  with Rules 6.1, 6.2
     and 6.3 above by virtue of the event by reason of which the New Options
     were granted.

6.5   In the event that notice is given to the shareholders of the Company of
      a resolution to be proposed for the voluntary winding up of the Company
      any Option Holder may serve notice to exercise,  his Subsisting Options
      at any time up to the passing of the resolution  provided that any such
      notice to exercise shall only be effective if the resolution is passed.
      If such resolution is duly passed all Options shall, to the extent that
      they have not been exercised, lapse.

6.6   For the purposes of this Rule 6 other than Rule 6.4 a person shall be
      deemed to have  obtained  Control of a Company if he and
      others acting in concert with him have together obtained Control of it.

6.7   The exercise of an Option  pursuant to the preceding  provisions of this
      Rule 0 shall be subject to the  provisions of Rule 8 below.

7.    VARIATION OF SHARE CAPITAL

      In the event of any  variation  in the share  capital of the Company by
      way of capitalization or rights issue or any consolidation sub-division
      or  reduction  of capital or  otherwise  by the  Company  the number of
      Shares  subject to any Option  and the  Subscription  Price for each of
      those Shares shall be adjusted by the  Remuneration  Committee  subject
      (except in the case of a capitalization) to written confirmation by the
      Auditors that in their opinion such  adjustment is fair and  reasonable
      provided that:

      7.1   the aggregate amount payable on the exercise of an Option in full
            is not increased; and

      7.2   the Subscription Price for a Share is not reduced below its
            nominal value.

8.   MANNER OF EXERCISE OF OPTIONS

8.1  No Option shall be exercisable save in accordance with the then current
     Model Code for Securities Transactions by Directors of Listed Companies
     issued by the London Stock Exchange.

8.2  Subject  to the  provisions  of Rule 5 and this Rule 8 an Option may be
     exercised  at  any  time  in  whole  or in  part  but  not  unless  the
     Remuneration Committee otherwise permits in respect of less than 10 per
     cent of the  Shares  the  subject of the  Option  unless  such  smaller
     percentage  represents all the remaining Shares under the Option by the
     Option  Holder  or (as the  case may be) his  personal  representatives
     giving a notice of exercise to the  Company  substantially  in the form
     set out in Schedule 3 accompanied  by the  appropriate  payment and the
     relevant  Option  certificate and shall be effective on the date of its
     receipt  by  the  Company  ("exercise  date")  provided  that  wherever
     relevant the Performance  Conditions shall first have been fulfilled to
     the satisfaction of the Remuneration Committee.

8.3  No Option  shall be capable of being quoted  or  dealt in on any stock
     exchange.

8.4  Shares  shall be allotted  and issued  pursuant to a notice of exercise
     within 42 days of the exercise date. Save for any rights  determined by
     reference to a date  preceding the date of allotment  such Shares shall
     rank pari passu with the other shares of the same class in issue at the
     date of  allotment  and will be  subject to all the  provisions  of the
     Articles of Association of the Company  relating to voting,  dividends,
     transfer or otherwise.

8.5  When an Option  is  exercised  only in part the  balance  shall  remain
     exercisable on the same terms as originally applied to the whole Option
     and a new Option  certificate  representing the balance shall be issued
     by the Company as soon as possible after the partial exercise.

8.6  Where relevant, within 28 days after Shares have been allotted pursuant
     the  exercise of an Option the Company  shall make  application  to the
     Council of the London Stock  Exchange for the admission to the Official
     List of the Shares allotted and issued following such exercise.

8.7  It shall be a  condition  of  participation  in the Scheme  that in the
     event of an Option Holder  ceasing to be an Eligible  Participant  (for
     whatever   reason)  he  shall  not  be  entitled  to  any  compensation
     whatsoever  by reason of any  termination  or  alteration  of rights or
     expectations  under the Scheme whether such  compensation is claimed by
     way of damages for wrongful dismissal or breach of contract or for loss
     of office or otherwise  howsoever.  Participation  in this Scheme by an
     Option Holder is a matter  entirely  separate from any pension right or
     entitlement  he may have and from his terms or conditions of employment
     and  participation in this Scheme shall in no respects  whatever affect
     in any way an Option Holder's pension rights or entitlement or terms or
     conditions of employment.

9.  TAXATION

9.1 If a Tax Liability  arises in respect of an Option the Company shall be
    entitled to deduct to the extent  permitted by law such  amount(s) from
    any payment due to be made by the Company or any company which controls
    or is  controlled  by the Company to or in respect of the Option Holder
    in  respect of that  Option  during  the same  calendar  month or other
    relevant period in which the event occurs or in any subsequent calendar
    month or such relevant period in order to satisfy and discharge the Tax
    Liability  whether  or not such  payment  is of an  income  or  capital
    nature.

9.2 If and to the extent the Tax  Liability  referred  to in Rule 9.1 is of
    income tax which  exceeds the amount from which  deductions  in respect
    thereof  can be made  in any  one  period  referred  to in Rule  9.1 in
    respect of the Option Holder concerned, that Option Holder shall pay or
    reimburse  the Company for the amount of the excess on demand or within
    such  period as may be  specified  in any written  notice  given by the
    Company.

9.3 Where a Tax  Liability  arises in respect of the exercise of an Option,
    the Board may, without prejudice to the Company's rights under Rule 9.1
    and Rule 9.2, by written notice to the Option Holder concerned nominate
    as his bare trustee any person (the "Bare Trustee") to sell such number
    of Shares  issued upon the exercise of the Option as may be required in
    order to discharge the Tax Liability and any other liability (including
    costs)  connected  with the said sale and the Bare Trustee shall pay an
    amount  equal  to the  Tax  Liability  to  the  Company  and  otherwise
    discharge any other said  liability to the extent that the net proceeds
    from the said sale permit.

10.  ADMINISTRATION AMENDMENT AND TERMINATION

10.1 The Scheme shall be administered by the Remuneration Committee whose
     decision on all disputes shall be final.

10.2 The Board may from time to time make amendments to these Rules provided
     that:

     10.2.1  no  amendment  may  detrimentally  affect  an  Option
             Holder as regards any  Subsisting  Option held by him
             on the date of the  amendment  being made except with
             the  consent  in  writing  of (a) in  the  case  of a
             Founder Option, the holder of that Founder Option and
             (b) in every  other  case such  Option  Holders  who,
             assuming they exercise  their Options in full,  would
             thereby  become  entitled  to  not  less  than  three
             quarters  in nominal  amount of all the Shares  which
             would fall to be  allotted  upon  exercise in full of
             all Subsisting Options; and

     10.2.2   except with the prior sanction of the Company in general
              meeting no such  modification  or variation  shall
              extend the class of person  eligible for the grant of Options
              or alter to the  advantage  of Option  Holders
              (present  or future)  Rules 2.1,  2.2,  2.3,  2.7, 3, 4, 7 or
              the  definitions  of  "Eligible  Participant",
              "Participating  Company" or "Subscription  Price" except for
              minor amendments to benefit the  administration
              of the Scheme,  to comply with or take account of any proposed
              or existing  legislation  or law or to obtain
              or maintain favourable tax, exchange control or regulatory 
              treatment for Option Holders (present or future)
              or for any Participating Company; and

     10.2.3   written  notice of any  alteration  made in  accordance 
              with this  Rule 10.2  shall be given to all  Option Holders

10.3  The cost of establishing  and operating the Scheme shall be borne by the
      Participating  Companies in such  proportions as the
      Board shall determine.

10.4  The Company in general  meeting or the Board may at any time resolve to
      terminate  this  Scheme  in which  event no  further  Options  shall be
      granted but the  provisions  of this Scheme shall  continue in force in
      relation to Subsisting Options.

10.5  The Company shall at all times keep available sufficient authorised and
      unissued  Shares to  satisfy  the  exercise  to the full  extent  still
      possible  of all  Options  which  have  neither  lapsed  nor been fully
      exercised  taking  account of any other  obligations  of the Company to
      issue unissued Shares.

10.6  Any  notice to be given  pursuant  to the terms of these  Rules must be
      given in  writing to the party due to  receive  such  notice at (in the
      case of the Company) its registered office from time to time or (in the
      case of an individual) his address as notified to the Company from time
      to time.  Notice must be  delivered  personally  or sent by first class
      pre-paid recorded delivery or registered post (air mail if overseas) or
      by facsimile  transmission  and shall be deemed to be given in the case
      of delivery  on delivery  and in the case of posting (in the absence of
      evidence of earlier  receipt)  within 48 hours after posting (6 days if
      sent  by air  mail)  and in  the  case  of  facsimile  transmission  on
      completion of transmission.



<PAGE>


                                   SCHEDULE 1

                                 Letter of Grant

                           [The Company's Letterhead]

                                                              Date

To:       Eligible Participant


Dear  [name of Eligible Participant]

THE HUNTINGDON LIFE SCIENCES GROUP UNAPPROVED SHARE OPTION SCHEME
("the Scheme")




<PAGE>


1     The  Directors  have  granted  you  [an/four]   option[s]   [designated
      'A'/'B'/'C'/'D'  Options  respectively] over [ ] ordinary shares [each]
      ("Shares") in the capital of Huntingdon  Life Sciences  Group plc ("the
      Company")  under and subject to the rules of the Scheme ("the  Option")
      which  was  approved  and  adopted  by  a  written  resolution  of  the
      shareholders of the Company on 199 . [Each of your options is a Founder
      Option  for the  purposes  of the  Rules.]  A copy of the  rules of the
      Scheme is enclosed herewith.

2     The subscription  price per Share payable on the exercise of the Option
      is [12.5]/[]p.  This subscription  price is subject to adjustment under
      Rule 7 of the  Scheme if the  Company's  share  capital  is  altered or
      re-organised, in specified ways.

3     An Option certificate for[each of] your option[s] is enclosed herewith.

4    Under the rules of the Scheme ("the  rules"),  except in certain 
     circumstances  the Option may not be exercised  earlier than
     three years from the Date of Grant.

5    [The  Option may not be  exercised  unless the  Performance  Conditions
     attached to this letter have been fulfilled to the  satisfaction of the
     Remuneration Committee except in certain circumstances permitted by the
     rules.][Your  Founder  Option  may not be  exercised  unless the Market
     Value of the Shares is equal to or exceeds the  relevant  target  price
     specified in the relevant option certificate.  You should refer to Rule
     2.2 in connection with this.]

6    The Option shall not be  exercisable  save in accordance  with the then
     current  Model Code for  Security  Transactions  by Directors of Listed
     Companies issued by the London Stock Exchange.

7    You may  renounce  the  Option in whole or in part by  signing  (in the
     presence of a witness)  and  returning  this letter  together  with the
     enclosed  Option  certificate to me before [date 21 days after the Date
     of Grant].


Yours faithfully,


 .....................
Secretary


[NOTE:   Performance Conditions must be attached to this letter]


                                  RENUNCIATION


I [PRINT NAME] hereby renounce the Option [in whole]/[in respect of Shares]. I
am returning with this letter the certificate in respect of the Option referred
to above.


SIGNED as a DEED by [NAME] in the presence of:


Signature:

Name:

Address:


Occupation:


<PAGE>


                                   SCHEDULE 2

                           Option Certificate Number:


                      Incorporated under the Companies Acts

                Registered in England and Wales under Number [ ]

                    TOTAL NUMBER OF ORDINARY SHARES OF p EACH

               INCLUDED IN THIS ['A'/'B'/'C'/'D'] OPTION (number)



This is to certify that (name) was granted an  ['A'/'B'/'C'/'D']  Option on the
day of to  subscribe  for ordinary  shares of [ ]p each in the  capital  of the
Company  ("Shares") at a Subscription  Price of [12.5P]/[  ]per Share giving an
aggregate  Subscription Price of (pound) upon the terms of the Huntingdon  Life
Sciences Group Unapproved Share Option Scheme ("the scheme"). The Option may be
exercised only at the times and in the circumstances and manner permitted by the
rules of the Scheme and cannot be  transferred, assigned,  charged,  pledged or
otherwise disposed of or dealt with. Any purported transfer, assignment, charge,
pledge or other  disposal  or  dealing with  shall  cause  the  Option to lapse
forthwith.

[This  ['A'/'B'/'C'/'D']  Option is subject to the conditions specified in Rule
2.2 and cannot be  exercised until the Market  Value of a Share is equal to or
more than 25/50/75/100 pence.]


THE COMMON SEAL of
HUNTINGDON LIFE 
SCIENCES GROUP plc was affixed to this deed in the presence of:

Director

Secretary


Date .........................

NOTE:


<PAGE>



(1)  A form of exercise on the Option is printed  overleaf.  This certificate
     must be surrendered on the exercise,  in whole or in part, of the Option.

(2)  The number and/or description of shares covered by this Option and/or the
     Subscription Price may be varied in accordance with the Rules of the
     Scheme.

(3)  Notice to exercise this Option must be given by [date no later than the
     day before the tenth anniversary of the Date of Grant].

(4)  The right to exercise this Option shall be subject to the due 
     satisfaction of the Performance Conditions specified on the attached sheet.


<PAGE>


                                   SCHEDULE 3

                                Form of Exercise


                (TO BE PRINTED ON REVERSE OF OPTION CERTIFICATE)
                 PLEASE READ THE NOTES AT THE FOOT OF THIS FORM
                         CAREFULLY BEFORE COMPLETING IT


                                FORM OF EXERCISE


The Secretary
Huntingdon Life Sciences Group plc


I,  the  undersigned,  having  become  entitled  so to do  hereby  exercise  the
['A'/'B'/'C'/'D']  Option referred to overleaf in respect of Shares comprised in
the Option upon the terms of the Huntingdon Life Sciences Group Unapproved Share
Option  Scheme ("the  Scheme") and agree to accept the Shares to be allotted and
issued  pursuant to this Form of Exercise  subject to and in accordance with the
Memorandum  and Articles of Association of the Company and hereby request you to
place my name on the Register of Members in respect thereof.

I enclose a  remittance  for  (pound)  being the  aggregate  Subscription  Price
payable  for the Shares in respect of which the Option is now  exercised  at the
Subscription Price per Share specified overleaf.

For the  avoidance  of  doubt,  I hereby  agree  that Rule 9 of the rules of the
Scheme  may be  applied  by the  Company  and the Board at their  discretion  in
respect of the Option hereby exercised.

If applicable,  I hereby request you to despatch a balance  certificate  for the
Option to subscribe for any Shares  included in the Option  referred to overleaf
and not exercised on this occasion,  by post at my risk to the address mentioned
below.


Signature .....................................


Surname ......................................


Forename(s) .................................


Address .......................................

 ...................................................


<PAGE>


Note:


<PAGE>





(1)   Although  the Option  referred  to  overleaf  is personal to the holder
      named overleaf it may be exercised by his personal representative(s) if
      he dies while it is still  capable of exercise  provided  the  personal
      representative(s)  does/do so before the  expiration  of twelve  months
      from the date of the  holder's  death or ten years from the date of its
      grant (if  sooner).  If there are more than one,  each of the  personal
      representatives must sign this form.

(2)   Options must be exercised in respect of whole numbers of Shares. Please
      indicate the number of Shares you wish to  subscribe  on this  occasion
      which must not exceed the number of Shares comprised in the Option.  In
      any event you will be deemed to have  exercised  your rights in respect
      of that whole number of Shares which can be subscribed  with the moneys
      represented by your remittance.

(3)   The  remittance  should  be  for  an  amount  equal  to  the  aggregate
      Subscription  Price,  being the  Subscription  Price  per  Share  shown
      overleaf, multiplied by the number of Shares applied for.


</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-4
<SEQUENCE>22
<TEXT>


THIS DEED OF VARIATION is made the 6 day of August 1998

BETWEEN

CIBA-GEIGY,  PLC (registered number 170180) whose registered office is at Hulley
Road, Macclesfield, Cheshire SK10 2NX ("the Vendor"); and

HUNTINGDON LIFE SCIENCES  LIMITED  (registered  number 1815730) whose registered
office is at Woolley Road, Alconbury, Huntingdon, Cambridgeshire, PE18 6ES ("the
Purchaser"); and

HUNTINGDON LIFE SCIENCES GROUP plc (formerly HUNTINGDON  INTERNATIONAL  HOLDINGS
PLC)  (registered  number  502370) whose  registered  office is at Woolley Road,
Alconbury, Huntingdon, (Cambridgeshire, PE18 6ES ("the Guarantor").

WHEREAS

A.       This Deed is  supplemental  to an Asset Purchase  Agreement  dated 14th
         March 1997 between the Vendor,  the Purchaser  and the  Guarantor  (the
         "Asset Purchase Agreement").

B. The Purchaser has requested amendment of the Asset Purchase Agreement.

C.       The  Vendor is  willing  to amend  the  timetable  for the  Purchaser's
         Payment obligations under the Asset Purchase Agreement.

D.       It is  desired  and  agreed  by the  parties  that the  Asset  Purchase
         Agreement be varied hereby.

NOW THIS DEED WITNESSETH as follows:

1.       In pursuance of the Asset Purchase  Agreement:  hereinbefore  mentioned
         and in  consideration  of the  provisions  hereinafter  contained IT IS
         HEREBY  AGREED AND DECLARED by and between the parties  hereto that the
         provision of the Asset  Purchase  Agreement be and hereby are varied in
         the manner following.

2.       Clause  4.3 of the Asset  Purchase  Agreement  shall be  deleted in its
         entirety and replaced with the following:

         "The Vendor acknowledges  receipt of the sum of  (pound)1,200,000  (the
         "Initial Consideration") paid by the Purchaser on completion.

         The balance of the Fixed  Consideration (the "Deferred  Consideration")
         shall  be  paid in cash on the  following  dates  and in the  following
         amounts:

         (a)    The sum of(pound)250,000 shall be paid on 14th September 1998;
         (b)    The sum of(pound)250,000 shall be paid on 14th December 1998;
         (c)    The sum of(pound)500,000 shall be paid on 14th  March 1999;
         (d)    The sum of(pound)500,000 shall be paid on 14th  June 1999;
         (e)    The sum of(pound)500,000 shall be paid on 14th September 1999;
         (f)    The sum of(pound)500,000 shall be paid on 14th December 1999;
         (g)    The sum of(pound)500,000 shall be paid on 14th  March 2000;
         (h)    The sum of(pound)500,000 shall be paid on 16th  June 2000;
         (i)    The sum of(pound)300,000 shall be paid on 14th September 2000."

3.       The Vendor hereby releases the Purchaser and the Guarantor from all and
         any  liabilities  and claims  (including  costs and interest) which may
         have  arisen  or may arise up to and  including  13th  September  1998,
         relating  to and/or  arising  out of Clause  4.3 of the Asset  Purchase
         Agreement  (or any breach or alleged  breach  thereof)  which clause is
         deleted in the entirety and replaced pursuant to Clause 2 of this Deed.

4.       This  Deed  shall be  governed  by and  construed  on all  respects in
         accordance  with English Law and the parties hereby submit irrevocably
         to the exclusive jurisdiction of the English Courts.

5.       This Deed may be  executed  in any number of  counterparts, and by the
         parties  hereto in separate  counterparts, each of which when executed
         shall  constitute  an  original,   but  all  of  which  shall together
         constitute  one  and  the  same  instrument.  This  Deed  shall not be
         effective until each party has executed at least one counterpart.

IT IS HEREBY  AGREED  AND  DECLARED  that the  Asset  Purchase  Agreement shall
continue in full force and effect save as  modified  by the  provisions of this
Deed.


EXECUTED AS A DEED
by CIBA-GEIGY PLC
Acting through two Directors or a
Director and the Secretary



EXECUTED  AS A DEED by  HUNTINGDON  LIFE  SCIENCES LIMITED  Acting  through two
Directors or a Director and the Secretary




EXECUTED AS A DEED by  HUNTINGDON  LIFE  SCIENCES GROUP plc Acting  through two
Directors or a Director and a Secretary


</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-5
<SEQUENCE>23
<TEXT>


                     UNITED STATES DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE

                       BEFORE THE SECRETARY OF AGRICULTURE


In re:                                           )        AWA Docket No. 98-15
                                                 )
         Huntingdon Life Sciences, Inc.,         )
                                                 )
                                                 )        Consent Decision
                           Respondent            )        and Order

         This proceeding was instituted under the Animal Welfare Act, as amended
7 U.S.C. ss.2131 et seq.), by a complaint filed by the Administrator, Animal and
Plant Health  Inspection  Service,  United  States  Department  of  Agriculture,
alleging that the  respondent  violated the  regulations  and  standards  issued
pursuant  to the Act (9  C.F.R.  ss.  1.1 et seq.).  This  decision  is  entered
pursuant to the consent decision  provisions of the Rules of Practice applicable
to this proceeding (7 C.F.R. ss. 1.138).

         The respondent admits the jurisdictional  allegations in paragraph I of
the complaint and  specifically  admits that the Secretary has  jurisdiction  in
this matter,  either  admits nor denies the remaining  allegations,  waives oral
hearing and  further  procedure,  and  consents  and agrees,  for the purpose of
settling  this  proceeding  and for  such  purpose  only,  to the  entry of this
decision.

         The complainant agrees to the entry of this decision.

                                Findings of Fact

(a)         Huntingdon  Life Sciences,  Inc.,  hereinafter  referred to as
            respondent,  is a Delaware  corporation  whose address is Post
            Office Box 2360,  Mettlers  Road,  East  Milstone,  New Jersey
            08875-2360.

(b)         The respondent,  at all times material hereto,  was registered
            and  operating as a research  facility as,  defined in the Act
            and the regulations.

                                   Conclusions

         The respondent having admitted the jurisdictional facts and the parties
having agreed to the entry of this decision, such decision will be entered.

                                      Order

1.           Respondent, its agents and employees,  successors and assigns,
             directly or through any corporate or other device, shall fully
             comply with the Act and the regulations and standards,  and in
             particular, shall not:

(a)                fail to have its  Institutional  Animal  Care and Use
                   Committee   (IACUC)   review  the   procedures   used
                   involving  animals to ensure that they would avoid or
                   minimize  discomfort,   distress,  and  pain  to  the
                   animals,   to  assure  that  appropriate   sedatives,
                   analgesics,  or anesthetics  were used, and to ensure
                   that   principal    investigators    had   considered
                   alternatives to procedures that would cause more than
                   momentary  or slight  pain or distress to the animals
                   and had provided a written  narrative  description of
                   the methods and sources used;

(b) fail to keep primary enclosures and food receptacles clean and sanitized, as
required;

(c)                fail to develop  and follow an  appropriate  plan for
                   environmental  enhancement  adequate  to promote  the
                   psychological well-being of nonhuman primates;

(d)                fail to communicate  timely and accurate  information
                   on  problems   of  animal   health,   behavior,   and
                   well-being to the attending veterinarian;

(e)                fail to construct and maintain primary enclosures for
                   nonhuman  primates  so that they  protect the animals
                   from injury and  contain  them  securely  and prevent
                   accidental opening of the enclosures;

(f)                fail to maintain programs of adequate veterinary care
                   under the  supervision  and assistance of a doctor of
                   veterinary medicine;

(g)                fail to have its IACUC  review and  approve,  require
                   modifications  in (to secure  approval),  or withhold
                   approval of those  components of proposed  activities
                   related to the care and use of animals;

(h)                fail to have its IACUC  review  the  procedures  used
                   involving  animals  to  ensure  that  no  animal  was
                   impermissibly  used in more than one major  operative
                   procedure from which it was allowed to recover; and

(i) fail to file complete annual reports.

2.       Respondent is assessed a civil penalty of $50,000, 10,000 of which
         shall be paid by a certified check or money order made payable to the
         Treasurer of United States, Respondent shall spend $20,00 within 6
         months of the effective date of this order to construct facilities
         that will allow individually housed primates to be placed into paired
         or group housing.  Such housing shall be subject to prior approval
         by APHIS./  Respondent shall donate the remaining $20,00 within 60
         days of the effective date of this order to a nonprofit organization
         that promotes the development and use of alternatives to animals in
         research and testing.  Such nonprofit organization shall be subject
         to prior approval by APHIS.

3.       Respondent   shall   retain  an  outside   laboratory   animal
         consultant  with expertise in the area of IACUC  functions and
         responsibilities.  Such  consultant  shall be subject to prior
         approval by APHIS.  The  consultant  shall conduct a review of
         respondent's  animal care and use program,  and shall submit a
         report to respondent and APHIS. The consultant shall conduct a
         follow  up review  with  respondent  to ensure  that any areas
         identified in the report concerning  respondent's  animal care
         and use program are appropriately addressed.

         The  provisions  of this order  shall  become  effective  upon
issuance.


<PAGE>


                  Copies of this decision shall be served upon the parties



                  ----------------------------
                  Alan H. Staple
                  President
                  Huntingdon Life Sciences, Inc.



                  ----------------------------
                  David L. Durkin
                  Attorney for Respondent



                  ----------------------------
                  Frank Martin, Jr.
                  Attorney for Complainant


                                                Done at Washington, D.C.
                                                This 8th day of April, 1998

                                                ----------------------
                                                Administrative Law Judge



</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-1
<SEQUENCE>24
<TEXT>



THIS THIRD SUPPLEMENTAL DEED is made this 7th day of August 1998

BETWEEN:-

1.       HUNTINGDON LIFE SCIENCES LIMITED, a Company incorporated under the laws
         of England and Wales with  registered  number  1815730 of Woolley Road,
         Alconbury, Huntingdon, Cambridgeshire PE17 5HS (the "Chargor"); and

2.       NATIONAL  WESTMINSTER  BANK Plc of 3rd Floor,  Juno Court,  25 Prescott
         Street, London E1 8BB as agent and trustee for the Secured Parties (the
         "Agent" which  expression  shall include all successor agents appointed
         from time to time).

WHEREAS

(A)      By a  Facilities  Agreement  of even date  herewith  made  between  the
         Chargor (1),  Huntingdon  Life Sciences  Group Plc (the  "Parent") (2),
         Huntingdon Life Sciences Inc. (3), the Secured Parties  (therein called
         the "Banks") (4) and the Agent (5) ("the  Facilities  Agreement"),  the
         Banks  have  agreed to make  available  to the  Borrowers  (as  therein
         defined) certain facilities in substitution for the Existing Facilities
         (as therein defined);

(B)      The Existing  Facilities,  the Existing  Ancillary  Facilities  and the
         Bridging Facility (as defined in the Facilities Agreement) are the only
         facilities  which  immediately  prior to the  signing of this Deed were
         available  to the  Borrowers  from the  Banks or any of them  (alone or
         jointly with any other person);

(C)      This  Deed is  supplemental  to a  Guarantee  and  Debenture  dated 1st
         November 1995 between the parties  hereto (as amended and  supplemented
         by  Supplemental  Deeds dated 20th January 1998 and 26th February 1998,
         together hereinafter referred to as "the Debenture").

NOW THIS DEED WITNESSETH as follows:-


<PAGE>



1.       (a)      In this Deed (including the recitals),  unless the context
                  otherwise requires or unless otherwise defined or provided for
                  in this  Deed,  words  and  expressions  shall  have  the same
                  meanings as are  attributable  to them under the Debenture and
                  the Facilities Agreement; and

         (b)      Clause 2.1 of the Debenture  shall be amended by the insertion
                  of the words  "when and to the  extent  that they fall due for
                  payment" after the words "that it will".

2.       The  right  of the  Agent to give  notice  and to take  possession  and
         appoint a Receiver  pursuant  to Clause 7.1 of the  Debenture  shall be
         exercisable  only in  accordance  with  Clause  13.4 of the  Facilities
         Agreement.

3.       The provisions of Clause 7.2 of the Debenture shall,  subject to Clause
         8 below,  have effect only if,  following a breach of Clause 12.3(a) of
         the  Facilities  Agreement  which  constitutes  a Default  under Clause
         13.1(b)  thereof or  following a Default  described  in Clause  13.1(f)
         thereof,  the  Agent  gives  notice  pursuant  to  Clause  13.2  of the
         Facilities Agreement and a Receiver or Receivers are appointed over the
         whole of the property, assets and undertaking of any of the Borrowers.

4.       The Agent may only serve  notice and  exercise  its rights under Clause
         10.1 of the Debenture if it has given notice in accordance  with Clause
         13.2 of the Facilities Agreement.

5.       The Agent may only serve  notice and  exercise  its rights under Clause
         11.1 of the Debenture  after notice has been given in  accordance  with
         Clause  13.2  of  the  Facilities  Agreement  OR,  in  the  case  of an
         application  to the  Court  for an  administration  order,  only in the
         circumstances described in Clause 13.1(j) of the Facilities Agreement.

6.       Without  prejudice to any set-off pursuant to insolvency  legislation
         and  notwithstanding  any other  provisions of the Debenture or this
         Deed,  neither the Agent nor the Secured Parties (or any of them)
         shall have (i) any right  whether  under  Clause 14 of the  Debenture
         or otherwise howsoever  to  combine,  consolidate, set off or transfer
         (save for a transfer  pursuant  to Clause 14.2.3 of the  Facilities
         Agreement)  any sums from time to time standing to the credit
         of any  account of the  Chargor with the  Agent,  transferred from the
         Deposit  Account  and intended to be used for the  Chargor's  general
         working  capital  requirements,  ("a  Relevant Account") or (ii) any
         rights or remedies over a Relevant Account save for the exercise of the
         Agent's rights under the Debenture in accordance with the provisions
         of Clause 8 below.

7.       The  provisions of Clause 23 of the  Debenture  shall be subject to any
         provisions  inconsistent  therewith in the Facilities Agreement,  which
         latter provisions shall prevail.

8.       Notwithstanding any of the provisions of this Deed or the Debenture:-

         (a)      none of the rights,  powers and remedies  granted to the Agent
                  pursuant to the Debenture  shall be exercisable in relation to
                  the  sums  from  time  to time  standing  to the  credit  of a
                  Relevant Account; and

         (b)      the Chargor shall be entitled at all times to withdraw  monies
                  from a Relevant  Account  for the  Chargor's  general  working
                  capital requirements;

         unless (i) the Agent has made a demand for  payment  pursuant to Clause
         13.2 of the  Facilities  Agreement  and has  appointed  a  Receiver  or
         Receivers over the whole of the property, assets and undertaking of any
         of the  Borrowers  pursuant to Clause 11.1 of the  Debenture as amended
         hereby OR (ii) an administration order has been made in relation to any
         of the Borrowers  pursuant to section 8 of the  Insolvency Act 1986 (or
         any statutory notification or re-enactment thereof from time to time in
         force).

9.       In the event of any inconsistency between the provisions hereof and the
         provisions of the Facilities Agreement the latter shall prevail.

10.      Subject to the provisions  hereof the Debenture shall continue in full
         force and effect.

11.      This Deed shall be governed by and construed and interpreted in
         accordance with English law.

12.      Every provision  contained in this Deed shall be severable and distinct
         from every other such  provision  and if at any time any one or more of
         such provisions is or becomes invalid,  illegal or  unenforceable,  the
         validity,  legality and enforceability of the remaining such provisions
         shall not in any way be affected thereby.

13.      This Deed may be  executed in any number of  counterparts  and all such
         counterparts shall be deemed to constitute one and the same instrument.

IN WITNESS  whereof  the  Chargor  and the Agent have signed this Deed as a deed
with the intention that it be delivered the day and year first before written.

Signed as a Deed by                 )
HUNTINGDON LIFE SCIENCES LIMITED    )
acting by two Directors or one      )
Director and its secretary          )



Signed as a Deed for and on behalf of   )
NATIONAL WESTMINSTER BANK PLC           )


</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
</SEC-DOCUMENT>
-----END PRIVACY-ENHANCED MESSAGE-----
